---
title: Amélie Gabrielle Boudet
date: 2019-02-01 19:00:00
topics: 
- allan-kardec
- spiritism
---


Madame Rivail (Ms. Allan Kardec) was born in Thiais, the city of the smallest
and most populous French Department, the Seine, at 2 of the frimarium, of year
IV, according to the Republican Calendar then in force in France, and which
corresponds to November 23, 1795. \r

Daughter of Julien-Louis Boudet, owner and former notary, well placed man in
life, and Julie-Louise Seigneat de Lacombe, received, in the font, the name of
Amélie-Gabrielle Boudet. \r

Miss Amélie, an only daughter, combining great vivacity and strong interest in
her studies from an early age, was not a problem for parents, who, along with
fine moral education, provided her with keen intellectual skills. \r

After attending primary school, she settled in Paris with his family, joining a
Normal School, where she graduated as a first-class teacher. \r

It reveals to us Dr. Canuto de Abreu that lady Amélie was also a teacher of
Letters and Fine Arts, bringing from past incarnations the innate tendency, so
to speak, to poetry and drawing. Cultured and intelligent, came to give birth
three works, thus named: Primaveris Tales, 1825; Notions of Drawing, 1826; The
Essentials in Fine Arts, 1828. \r

Living in Paris, in the world of letters and teaching, I wanted the fate that,
one day, Ms. Amélie Boudet came across Professor Hippolyte Denizard Rivail. \r

Of short stature, but well proportioned, with brown and serene eyes, gentle and
graceful, vivacious in gesture and word, denouncing admirable intelligence,
Amélie Boudet, still combining all these predicates a tender and kind smile,
soon made it possible to notice by the circumspect Prof. Rivail, in whom he
immediately recognized a truly superior man, worshipped, polished and straight.
\r

On February 6, 1832, the marriage contract was signed. Amélie Boudet was nine
years older than Prof. Rivail, but such was her physical and spiritual
joviality, that the eyes seen appeared the same age as her husband. Never this
difference was an obstacle to the happiness of both. \r

Shortly after completing his studies with Pestalozzi in the famous Swiss castle
of Zahringen (Yverdun), Prof. Rivail founded in Paris a Technical Institute,
with guidance based on pestalozzian methods. Madame Rivail joined her husband in
the aphanosa educational task, which he had been performing, in the said
Institute, there was more than one gloss. \r

Great praiseworthy was this human and patriotic initiative of Prof. Rivail,
because despite the successive laws enacted after the French Revolution for
teaching, public education lived neglected by the Government, so much so that
only in 1833, by the Guizot Law, is that and primary education in France would
definitely be established. \r

In 1835, the couple suffered a painful setback. That educational establishment
was forced to lock its doors and go into liquidation. But possessing a highly
understanding, resigned and courageous wife, it was easy for him to overlap
these infaustous events. Mutually supported, both launched themselves into
further work. During the day, while Rivail took care of the accounting of
commercial houses, his wife collaborated in some way in preparing the free
courses she had organized in her own residence, and which ran from 1835 to
1840.\r

At night, together again, they did not give themselves the fair and deserved but
productive rest. The problem of education to children and young people had
become for Prof. Rivail, as the outside for his master Pestalozzi, always worthy
of the greatest attention. Therefore, even the hours of the night he divided
them to different misters related to that problem, receiving in all the talented
and spontaneous cooperation of his wife. In addition to writing new teaching
works, which, incidentally, had great acceptance, Prof. Rivail performed
translations of classical works, prepared for the courses of Lévi-Alvarès,
frequented by all parisian youth in the Neighborhood of St Germano, and was
dedicated, also, on certain days of the week, together with his wife, to teach
the subjects established for the aforementioned free courses. \r

"He who finds a good woman will find good and find joy in the Lord," Solomon
said. Amélie Boudet was one of these good, noble and pure women, and who,
stripped of worldly vanity, discover in marriage disgusting missions to be
performed.\r

In the public courses of Mathematics and Astronomy, in which Prof. Rivail taught
bi-weekly, from 1843 to 1848, and to whom they attended not only students, but
also teachers, at the Polymatic High School, who founded and directed until
1850, did not miss the aid at all efficient and constant of his dedicated
consort. \r

All these achievements and others, for the good of the people, originated from
the usual lectures between the two spouses, but, as pointed out by the Countess
of Segur, the inspirations that men come to fruition are mainly due to women. As
far as Madame Rivail is concerned, we believe that on many occasions, in
addition to being a counselor, she was the inspiration of several projects that
her husband put into execution. In fact, this is what Mr. P. J. Leymarie
confirms, stating that Kardec had in great regard his wife's opinions. \r

Thanks mainly to the pedagogical works of Professor Rivail, adopted by the
University of France itself, and which had successive editions, he and lady
achieved a satisfactory financial position. \r

The name Denizard Rivail became known in the cultured media and beyond the most
respected. The path of wealth and glory was open to him on the grounds of
Pedagogy. He would now have more time to devote himself to his wife, who,
according to her humility and high spiritual position, had never complained
about anything.\r

Both, however, were reserved for a mission, great for its universal importance,
but full of exhausting works and painful thorns.\r

The first call touch occurred in 1854, when Prof. Rivail was drawn to the
curious phenomena of the "spinning tables", then in vogue around the world.
Other invitations from beyond followed and we see, in mid-1855, in the home of
the Baudin Family, Prof. Rivail begin his first serious studies on the
aforementioned phenomena, thus entertaining the key to the problem that for
millennia lived in obscurity. \r

Accompanying her husband in these investigations, one would see the emotional
joy with which she became aware of the facts that descended into humanity new
horizons of happiness. After countless observations and experiences, Professor
Rivail has put up with the wonderful work of Coding, and it is still his dear
consort, then 60 years old, that he receives all the moral support in this
beginning. She became her true secretary of the husband, supporting him in the
new and much more arduous works that now took her all the time, encouraging him,
encouraging him to fulfill his mission.\r

Undoubtedly, we spiritists, much we owe Amélie Boudet and we agree with what
Samuel Smiles rightly wrote: "the supreme acts of women usually remain ignored,
do not come out in the light of the admiration of the world, because they are
made in private life, away from the public eyes, for the only love of good." \r

Madame Rivail's name is thus queuing, with great justice, among those of
countless women that history recorded as dedicated and faithful collaborators of
their spouses, without whom perhaps they did not take their missions to an end.
Such were, for example, the valiad wives of Lavoisier, Buckland, Flaxman, Huber,
Sir William Hamilton, Stuart Mill, Faraday, Tom Hood, Sir Napier, Pestalozzi,
Luther and so many other men of genius. To all these Great Women, in addition to
those much forgotten by history, humanity is eternal debtor!\r

Launched The Book of Spirits, from the lavra of Allan Kardec, pseudonym who took
Prof. Rivail, this, months later, on January 1, 1858, with the support of only
his wife, gave the fire the first issue of spiritist magazine, a periodical that
reached more than a century of exi great beneficial to Spiritism. \r

There were about six months that in the residence of the couple Rivail, then
situated on Rua dos Mártires, no. 8, sessions were held very well in place,
requiring from Madame Rivail a series of care and attention, which sometimes
left her exhausted. The place became tight for the high number of people who
attended there, hopefully, in April 1858, Allan Kardec founded, outside his
home, the "Parisian Society of Spiritist Studies". Another work of serious
responsibility! \r

Taking such initiatives back then, when clerical despotism still constituted a
force, was not a task for many. There was a need for a wide dose of devotee,
firmness of views and true spirit of sacrifice.\r

The Rivall couple were the one who fit, despite all the hard woods and dangers
that would come across the new road, undertake, with the assistance and
protection of the High, the greatest revolution of ideas that was made in the
mid-nineteenth century. \r

Allan Kardec was the target of hatred, injury, slander, envy, jealousy and the
spite of free enemies, who at all costs wanted to keep the light under the
bushing.\r

Intrigues, betrayals, insults, ingratitudes, all of evil surrounded the
illustrious reformer, but in all times of evidence and difficulties has always
encountered, in the tender affection of his noble wife, support and consolation,
confirming these words of Simalen: "Woman is the bonança star in the temporals
of life."\r

With extensive epistolary correspondence from France and several other
countries, it was not for his wife's help in this sector, there would
undoubtedly be no time for Allan Kardec to devote himself to preparing the books
of Codification and his magazine. \r

A series of trips (in 1860, 1861, 1862, 1864, among others) held Kardec, touring
more than twenty French cities, in addition to several others from Switzerland
and Belgium, in all sowing spiritist ideas. His venerable consort, whenever his
forces allowed him, accompanied him on many of these trips, whose expenses, he
must inform, ran on behalf of the couple himself. To paraphrase writer Carlyle,
it could be said that Madame Allan Kardec, for the space of almost forty years,
was her husband's loving and faithful companion, with her deeds and words always
supported him in all that he undertook worthy and good.\r

At 31 March 1869, at the age of 65, he suddenly disembodied Allan Kardec when he
finalised preparations for the change of residence. It was an irreparable loss
to the spiritist world, casting in dismay at all those who loved him. Madame
Allan Kardec, she had to share with admirable resignation the disappointments
and misfortunes of her husband, now, with her hair snowy by her 74 years of
existence and soul sublimated by the teachings of the Spirits of the Lord, would
endure any harsher reality. Before the departure of the dear companion for
Spirituality, he behaved as a true spiritist, full of faith and stoicism, while,
as is natural, shaken in the deep of being. \r

In the cemetery of Montmartre, where, with simplicity, on April 2, the burial of
the spoils of the master was held, a crowd of more than 1,000 people appeared.
Several speakers spoke, devoted disciples of Kardec, and finally Mr. E. Muller,
who at the beginning of his eulogy to the defunct dear thus expressed: "I speak
on behalf of his widow, of whom he was faithful and said companion for
thirty-seven years of happiness without clouds or heartbreak, from the one that
shared his beliefs and works, vicissitudes and joys, and which prided itself on
the purity of customs, absolute honesty and the sublime disinterest of the
spouse; today, alone, it is she who gives us the example of courage, tolerance,
forgiveness of injury and scrupulously fulfilled duty." \r

Madame Allan Kardec received numerous and effusive manifestations of sympathy
and encouragement from France and abroad, which brought new strength to the
continuation of her beloved husband's work. \r

Wishing the French spiritists to perpetuate in a monument their testimony of
deep recognition to the memory of the unforgettable master, consulted in this
sense the widow, who, sensitized by those human desires but sincere, proclaimed,
in charge of committee to take the necessary steps. Obeying a drawing of Mr.
Sebille, a dolise was then raised in the cemetery of Père-Lachaise, consisting
of three pure granite stones, in a vertical position, on which a fourth stone
was placed, tabular, slightly inclined, and weighing six Tons. Inside this
dolmen, on a column also of stone, a bust, in bronze, of Kardec, was fixed. \r

This new address of the deadly spoils of the Encoder was inaugurated on March
31, 1870, and on this occasion Mr. Levent, vice president of the "Parisian
Society of Spiritist Studies", spoke, at the request of Madame Allan Kardec, on
behalf of her and friends. \r

About two months after the decesso of lyon's excellent missionary, his wife, in
the commendable desire to contribute to the realization of the future plans he
had in mind, and whose works, magazine and Bookstore became the sole legal
owner, there was for good , in the interest of the Doctrine, grant every year
some money to a "General Fund of Spiritism", whose funds would be invested in
the acquisition of properties, so that any future eventualities could be
remedied.\r

Other wise decisions were made by her in order to safeguard the propaganda of
Spiritism, being, therefore, much appreciated, by spiritists from all over the
world, their noble disinterest and devoteement. \r

Despite her advanced age, Madame Allan Kardec demonstrated an unusual working
spirit, making sure everything to manage personally, taking care of various
matters, which would require several heads. In addition to attending the
meetings, to which she was invited, every year presided over the beautiful
session in which the day of the Dead was celebrated, and in which, after several
speakers showed what actually means death in the light of Spiritism, expressive
communications of Superior Spirits were received by several mediums.\r

If Madame Allan Kardec, as read in spiritist magazine of 1869, indulged in
personal interest, letting things go for themselves and without concern on her
part, she could easily ensure tranquility and rest to her old age. But, putting
himself in a higher point of view, and guided, moreover, by the certainty that
Allan Kardec with her counted on it to proceed, on the course already outlined,
the moralizing work that has been the subject of her to all the concern during
the last years of life, did not hesitate a single Instant. Deeply convinced of
the truth of spiritist teachings, she sought to ensure the vitality of Spiritism
in the future, and, as she herself said, better not know how to apply the time
that remained on Earth, before meeting with her husband. \r

Striving to implement the plans presented by Allan Kardec, in the Spiritist
Magazine of 1868, she succeeded, after careful studies done together with some
of Kardec's old disciples, to found the "Corporation of Spiritism". \r

Aimed at the vulgarization of Spiritism by all means permitted by the laws, this
society had, however, as its main phyto, the continuation of the Spiritist
Magazine, the publication of Kardec's works and as well as all the books that
dealt with the Spiritism. \r

Thanks, therefore, to the vision, commitment, to the boundless devotee of Madame
Allan Kardec, Spiritism grew at the pace of giant, not only in France, but also
worldwide. \r

Staphantes were the chores of this admirable woman, whose age already required
her physical rest and peace of mind. Early, however, the Heavens rescued her.
Mr. P. G. Leymarie, one of Kardec's most fervent disciples since 1858, medium,
honest man and tireless worker, took over, in 1871, the management of the
Spiritist Magazine and bookstore and, soon after, with the resignation of the
companions of directors of society anonymous, alone took under his shoulders the
heavy burdens of direction. From then on, he was Madame Allan Kardec's
right-hand man, always complying with respect for the instructions emanating
from the venerable elder, allowing her to end her days in peace and confident in
the continued progress of Spiritism. \r

Looking very commercial, in the eyes of some Puritan spiritists, the title given
to the Society, Madame Allan Kardec, who had also never sympathized with this
title, but who had accepted him because of certain conveniences, resolved, at
the General Assembly, of October 18, 1873, give it a new name: "Society for the
Continuation of the Spiritist Works of Allan Kardec", satisfying with this to
Greeks and Trojans. \r

Much of which spiritism and all those who asked her for advice or a word of
comfort still did, until, on January 21, 1883, at 5 am, sweetly, with rare
lucidity of spirit, with that same graceful and sweet smile that always played
on her lips, deflated from the last bonds that held her to matter. \r

The dear old lady was then 87 years old, and at that age they count those who
knew her, still read without needing glasses and wrote at the same time
correctly and with firm lyrics. \r

By applying to him the expressions of famous writer, one can say, without any
excess, that "his whole existence was a poem full of courage, perseverance,
charity and wisdom".\r

Understandable, therefore, it was the consternation that hit the spiritist
family in all quarters of the globe. According to his own wishes, Madame Allan
Kardec's burial was simple, leaving the retro féretro of her residence in Segur
Village, no. 39, to The Père-Lachaise, 12 kilometers away. \r

Large crowd, composed of humble and prominent people, attended the funerals of
Kardec's dolmen on January 23, where the spoils of the old lady were inhumanized
and where every year, until their disincarnation, she attended the solemnities
of March 31. \r

In the column that supports the bust of the Encoder were then recorded, on the
left, these words in capital letters: AMÈLIE GABRIELLE BOUDET - VEUVE ALLAN
KARDEC - 21 NOVEMBRE 1795 - 21 JANVIER 1883.\r

In the act of burial, mr. P.G. Leymarie spoke, on behalf of all spiritists and
the "Society for the Continuation of The Spiritist Works of Allan Kardec",
Charles Fauvety, distinguished writer and president of the "Scientific Society
of Psychological Studies" and, also, representatives of other institutions and
friends, such as Gabriel Delanne, Cot, Carrier, J. Camille Chaigneau, poet and
writer, Lecoq, Georges Cochet, Louis Vignon, who dedicated delicate verses to
the defunct darling, Dr. Josset and the distinguished writer, Mrs. Sofia
Rosen-Dufaure, all making the real merits of kardec's worthy successor stand
out. Finally, with a prayer made by Mr. Warroquier, the gifts dispersed in
silence. \r

The most touching note of those posthumous tributes was given by Mr. Lecoq. He
read, to everyone's joy, beautiful psychic communication by Antonio de Padua,
received on January 22, in which this enlightened Spirit described the brilliant
reception with which high Friends of Space, together with Allan Kardec, welcomed
that being well Blessed. \r

In the improvisation of Mr. P.G. Leymarie, he recalled, in quick traits,
something of the working life of the venerable extinct, of his nobility of soul,
stating, among other things, that the publication of both The Book of Spirits
and the Spiritist Magazine, was due in great depart to the firmness of courage,
at the insistence, to the perseverance of Madame Allan Kardec.\r

Without leaving direct heirs, because she had no children, by will made her
universal legative to the "Society for continuation of the Spiritist Works of
Allan Kardec". Although a relative of hers, already very old, and the children
of this intention would nullify these testamentary provisions, claiming that she
was not in perfect judgment, nothing, however, succeeded, because the evidence
to the contrary was overwhelming. \r

On January 26, 1883, the renowned Parisian medium, Mr. E. Cordurié,
spontaneously received a message signed by the Spirit of Madame Allan Kardec,
soon followed by another, by her husband. Simple in the forms, beautiful in the
concepts, also had a breath of immortality and proved that life continues... \r


## Source
[O Consolador (pt-BR)](http://www.oconsolador.com.br/linkfixo/biografias/amelieboudet.html)

## See Also
[Allan Kardec](../allan-karec)

