---
title: Anália Franco
date: 2019-02-01 19:00:00
topics: 
- profiles
- spiritism
- sao-paulo
---

Born in the city of Resende, State of Rio de Janeiro, on February 1, 1856, and
disincarnated in São Paulo, on January 13, 1919.\r

Her maiden name was Anália Emilia Franco. After consorting in marriage to
Francisco Antônio Bastos, his name became Anália Franco Bastos, however, is best
known as Anália Franco.\r

At the age of 16, he entered a Chamber Contest in this city and won approval to
serve as a primary teacher. He worked as his own mother's assistant for some
time. Before 1875, he graduated normalist, in São Paulo.\r

It was after the Law of the Free Womb that his true vocation was externalized:
the literary vocation. It was already for this remarkable time as literata,
journalist and poet. However, it came to his knowledge that the unborn of slaves
were previously destined for the "wheel" of the Holy House of Mercy. They were
already wandering, mendicantes, the roads and the streets, the black people
expelled from the farms considered unfit for work. They weren't, like hitherto
"negotiable" like their parents. In addition, captive acquirers preferred slaves
who had no children in their womb. Anália wrote, appealing to women making. He
exchanged his position in the Capital of São Paulo for another in the Interior,
in order to help the children in need.\r

In a neighborhood, in a city in the north of the State of S. Paulo, he got a
house to install an elementary school. A wealthy confectioner gave her the
school house with one condition, which was frontally repelled by Antalya: there
should be no contact between white and black children. Faced with this
humiliating condition, the gratuity of the use of the house was refused, paying
a rent. The confector kept resentment to the teacher's alret; at that place,
however, Anália inaugurated its first and original "Maternal House". He began to
receive all the children who knocked on his door, taken by relatives or caught
in the bushes and detours of the paths. The confecteer, abusing her husband's
political prestige, seeing that her rented home had become a slave ruminum,
decided to end that "scandal" on her farm. He promoted due diligence with the
colonel and he easily got the removal of the teacher. Amalia went to town and
rented an old house, paying from her pocket the rent corresponding to half his
salary. As the rest was insufficient for the feeding of children, did not
trempid in going personally to ask for alms for the girl. She left in the
morning on foot, taking with her the dark group she called, in her writings, "my
students without mothers". On a local sheet he announced that, next to the
public school, there was a small "shelter" for helpless children. Fame, not
always favorable to the new teacher, filled the city. Popular curiosity took
amazement, because on a Religious Party Sunday, she appeared on the streets with
her "students without mothers", in a predatory gang. A skinny, modest and yolute
girl, that impressive figure of woman, who begged for children of slaves, became
the scandal of the day. His removal from the city began to be considered in
political wheels, in pharmacies. But he roared in his favor a group of
abolitionists and Republicans, against the large group of Catholics, slaves and
monarchists.\r

Over time, leaving some maternal schools inside, he came to São Paulo and
entered brilliantly for the abolitionist and republican group. His mission,
however, was not political. Her biggest concern was with helpless children,
which led her to found her own magazine, entitled Album of girls, whose first
number came to light on April 30, 1898. The background article had the title "To
mothers and educators". His prestige within the teacher was already great when
the abolition of slavery and the Republic emerged. The advent of this new era
found Antalya with two large free colleges for girls and boys. And as soon as
the laws allowed her, she, seconded by twenty friendly ladies, founded the
educational institute that called herself "Charity and Instructional Women's
Association", on November 17, 1901, based in Largo do Arouche, in São Paulo.\r

He then created several "Maternal Schools" and "Elementary Schools", installing,
with solemn inauguration, on January 25, 1902, the "Female High School", which
aimed to instruct and prepare teachers for the direction of those schools, with
the course of two years for teachers from "Maternal Schools" and three years for
the "Elementary Schools".\r

Anália Franco published numerous leaflets and opuscules regarding the courses
taught in their schools, special treatises on childhood, in which teachers found
ways to develop the affective and moral faculties of children, instructing them
at the same time. His opubic The New Educational Handbook was divided into three
parts: Childhood, Adolescence and Youth.\r

On December 1, 1903, he began to publish A Voz Maternal, a monthly magazine with
the appreciable circulation of 6,000 copies, printed in its own workshops.\r

The Women's Association kept a Bazaar in Rua do Rosário, no. 18, in S. Paulo,
for the sale of the artifacts of its workshops, and a branch of this
establishment in Ladeira do Piques, no. 23.\r

Anália Franco maintained schools gathered in the capital and isolated schools in
the interior; maternal schools; day care centers in the capital and the interior
of the state; libraries attached to schools; professional schools; typographic
art; commercial bookkeeping course; nursing practice and dental art; languages
(French, Italian, English and German); music; drawing; painting; pedagogy;
sewing; embroidery; artificial flowers and hats, a total of 37 institutions.\r

She was a novelist, writer, theatorologist and poet. He has written a multitude
of booklets for the education of children and schools, which are worthy to be
adopted in public schools.\r

He was a fervent spiritist, always revealing unusual interest in things related
to the Spiritist Doctrine.\r

Three great novels produced her vast culture: The Maternal Aegis, The Artist's
Daughter, and The Adopted Daughter. She was the author of numerous plays,
dialogues and various stanzas, standing out Hymn to God, Hymn to Ana Nery, My
Earth, Hymn to Jesus and others.\r

In 1911, he managed, without any financial resources, to acquire Chácara
Paraíso. There were 75 land bushels, part in forests and capoeiras and the rest
occupied with various improvements, including an old manor, occupied for long
years by one of the most notable figures in Brazilian history: Diogo Antônio
Feijó.\r

In this farm, anália Franco founded the Regenerative Colony D. Romualdo, taking
advantage of the mansion, the stable and the old senzala, interning there under
female direction, the boys fitter for the crop, horticulture and other
agropastoral activities, collecting still diverted young women, thus managing to
regenerate hundreds of women.\r

The vast sowing of Anália Franco consisted of seventy-one schools, two hostels,
a regenerative colony for women, twenty-three asylums for orphaned children, a
female musical band, an orchestra, a dramatic group, as well as workshops for
manufacturing of hats, artificial flowers, etc., in twenty-four cities in the
interior and capital.\r

His disincarnation occurred precisely when he had taken the deliberation to go
to Rio de Janeiro to found another institution, an idea that later implemented
by her husband, who founded the Anália Franco Asylum there.\r

The work of Antalya Franco was undoubtedly one of the most salient and
meritorious in the history of Spiritism.\r


## Source
[O Consolador (pt-BR)](http://www.oconsolador.com.br/linkfixo/biografias/analiafranco.html)



