---
title: Benedita Fernandes
date: 2019-02-01 19:00:00
topics:
- divaldo-franco
---

Benedita Fernandes was born on June 27, 1883, in Campos Novos de Cunha (SP),
being the daughter of Maria Josefa Nascimento, who was a widow. With atrocious
obsession, authentic subjugation, Benedicta lost contact with her family and
wandered aimlessly. It was done, it caused so many discomforts to the population
that was collected from the Public Jail of the city of Penápolis. 

At that time there were no hospitals or care for this purpose. Jailer Padial and
then Mr. Marcheze assisted the sick woman, especially with passes, and Benedict,
awarded for necessity, received the liberating call; one made after a very
strong crisis, he had heard: "Benedict, one promises to consecrate you entirely
to the sick and poor, you will be healed from here."

She regained consciousness and decided to go to Araçatuba. She arrived, totally
unbalanced by the mediumship that surfaced her senses, Araçatuba, a high
northwest region of São Paulo located about six hours from the capital of São
Paulo. It was kindly supported and collected on behalf of the fraternity by a
couple friend. Later, redone, began to collect here and there,
desvalidachildren, thus emerging a very modest home, today the Benedita
Fernandes de Araçatuba Lar.

Right, the kids had nothing to eat. Benedict explained to them that if they went
to the gate, Jesus would help them. They set themselves at the entrance of the
Home, with their stomach hurting. Now, there was a man named Ricieri, who was a
salesman in a wagon, of bushings, kidneys, liver, a tripeiro, anyway. Ricieri
asked them what they were doing out there. "− We are waiting for Jesus to feed
us." He replied to them, "− Say for inside, to your mother, that Jesus has
arrived! And from that day on, with the leftovers of the tripeiro, there was no
more hunger there. Still, he also, in every house he stopped, spoke to the
patrons of that little shelter and many began to help.

It is said that, one day, Benedita Fernandes saw thrown to a mound, dead, and
almost devoured by vultures, the body of an old beggar, his acquaintance, that
by socioemotional lack, was considered crazy. She swore right there that no one,
considered crazy, or even the crazy ones, would be without their support. He
started collecting them and sheltering them in a little room. When in crisis,
the demented advanced to her, but this woman with breasts fed up, carapinha hair
and smile of hope, sat in a nearby chair, snuggled them to her lap, put the head
of the dislattered in her lap, calmed them with prayers, passes and good words
and the crisis was regressing, and they were calm, pacified by the irresistible
force of love.

The mayor of the city, seeing that this was a good cause, began to help her with
financial resources, but one day, this money, essential, came to no longer
arrive. And she, when she complained to the mayor, she knew she wouldn't have it
anymore. He didn't shudder. She was a woman of vigorous fiber, warned the
trustee that she would release all the crazy people because she could not
sustain them. They were then, for a few hours, wandering around the city of
Araçatuba and, thus, Benedita Fernandes obtained the grant again and was able to
continue theirtreatment in what is, today, the Sanatorium Benedita Fernandes de
Araçatuba. In addition to the work of assistance, he acted as a medium,
especially passistir, and in the evangelization of children.

It is worth mentioning that the Spirit that previously obsessed her, has become
one of its spiritual collaborators.  Benedita Fernandes also became one of the
pioneers of the current movement of unification of spiritists when she founded,
at thirty August 1940, the Regional Spiritist Union of the Northwest, being
elected its president.

She kept correspondence with Cairbar Schutel, who always published news about
her work in the historic newspaper O Clarim. She was visited by expressive
leaders such as João Leão Pitta and Leopoldo Machado. He felt bad at 11:00 p.m.
on October 8, 1947, when he talked to the children, advising them. He defaced an
hour and thirty minutes from October 9, 1947, who collapsed from heart failure.
Many years later, Ricieri began to consult at the current INCA in Rio de Janeiro
due to painful lung cancer.

You know that Divaldo Franco would be in a Cult, in the residence of the couple
Irene and Aristides Silva, in Flamengo, then he went with his wife Matilde and
the confreres Ana and Geraldo Guimarães. Divaldo Franco, in his discretion, that
day, becoming aware of the case of the sick, told him of chofre, to the
astonishment of all who were there:"− It is, Ricieri, you, like all of us, will
disembody, but there is here a venerating Spirit to tell me that you will
receive it and assist you in postmortem traffic. She tells me too, that you've
known her well since the days of the leftovers... She's thanking her, saying
thank you for the leftovers!" "− Leftovers? Oh, so it's D. Benedita Fernandes!
Ask him if I couldn't have a moratorium. I need some time to finish the sewer
work at my town's children's home. Divaldo, can I ask beyond the moratorium to
minimize my pain?" Divaldo listened to Benedita Fernandes. "− She tells me that
yes, that the moratorium will be granted to her. Later, you will experience a
severe pain in the heart and lung. Then will be the time of the trip..."
−completes divaldo. Then, the medium offers the patient the therapy of the
renovator pass and soft balsamic perfume invades the environment. Ricieri and
his wife Matilde went home; to the astonishment of the doctors, the pain had
passed. A year after these events, the kind tripeiro had already finished the
sewers of the shelter, when he felt a very strong and acute chest pain, warned
the woman, lay down and quietly defaced, aided, certainly by this dedicated
Spirit that calls Benedita Fernandes. Francisco Xavier's psychography records
the work of Benedita Fernandes, which is entitled On a Hot Sunday, signed by
Hilário Silva, and published by the Spiritist Yearbook 1964 (IDE).

In the 1970s and 1980s, Divaldo Pereira Franco psychographed several messages by
Benedita Fernandes. These are included in books of the same medium. On the
occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of his works, we released a book about
Benedict – Dama da Caridade, initially edited by the then Spiritist Municipal
Union of Araçatuba, in which we gathered information about the life and actions
of this remarkable worker, as well as the messages spiritual or allusive to her. 

## Source
[O Consolador (pt-BR)](http://www.oconsolador.com.br/linkfixo/biografias/beneditafernandes.html)



