---
title: Cairbar Schutel
date: 2019-02-01 19:00:00
topics: 
- caibar-shutel
- espiritismo
- brazil
- sao-paulo
---

On September 22, 1868, the son of the couple Anthero de Souza Schutel and Rita
Tavares Schutel, Cairbar de Souza Schutel was born in Rio de Janeiro, then
headquarters of the Imperial Court of Brazil, where he practiced in several
pharmacies and, at the age of 17, went to the State of São Paulo , work as a
pharmacist in Piracicaba, Araraquara and then in Matão, a city in which he lived
for 42 years.\r

Possessing brilliant culture, of great social prestige and especially of
notorious moral authority, he was eventually chosen for the honorable and
historic position of first Mayor of the city of Matão, a position he held twice;
the first from March 28 to October 7, 1899, returning to exercise it from August
18 to October 15, 1900, as set out in the minutes and historical records of the
Matomanse municipality.\r

Born into a Catholic family, baptized at the age of 7, Cairbar Schutel fulfilled
his obligations before the Church of Rome. However, already an adult and living
in Matão, he began to receive, in dreams, the constant visit of his late
parents, because he had been orphaned by both under 10 years of age.
Dissatisfied with the explanations of a priest for the phenomenon, Schutel
sought Quintiliano José Alves and Calixto Prado, who held meetings of domestic
spiritist practices, then achieving the reality of the extraphysical world.\r

Converted to Spiritism, he immediately took care to legalize the Group (now
Center) Spiritist Lovers of Poverty, whose installation minutes was drawn up on
July 15, 1905. Resolved to spread the Spiritist Doctrine throughout the four
corners of the world – and even living in a small and modest city in the
interior of Brazil − the "Bandeirante do Spiritismo", as cairbar Schutel became
known, founded the newspaper O Clarim, on August 15, 1905 , and RIE −
International Journal of Spiritism, on February 15, 1925, both circulate to this
day.\r

In addition, the tireless herald of Boa Nova, with all the difficulties of the
time and region, traveled weekly to the city of Araraquara to deliver, on
Sundays, his famous 15 Radio Conferences, by Radio Cultura de Araraquara (PRD −
4), in the from 19 August 1936 to May 2, 1937.\r

Fertile writer, between 1911 and 1937, wrote the books The baptism, Letters to
mose, Radio Conferences, Hysteria and psychic phenomena, The devil and the
church, Spiritism and Protestantism, The Spirit of Christianity, Spiritist Facts
and the X forces, Genesis of the soul , Synthetic interpretation of the
apocalypse, Mediums and mediums, Spiritism and materialism, Parables and
teachings of Jesus, Spiritist Prayers, Life and acts of the apostles, The
religious question,Freedom and progress, Doctrinal Purity, Life in the other
world and Spiritism for children.\r

To publish them, Schutel did not measure efforts: he acquired machines, paper,
ink, glue and other inputs for printing, always seeking to choose first-rate
material. From this effort came Casa Editora O Clarim, which today employs
numerous employees in Matão, having published more than one hundred titles of
works by renowned authors, incarnated and disincarnated.\r

Aware of her responsibility as a citizen, he took care to regularize his union
with Maria Elvira da Silva e Lima, with her marrying on August 31, 1905; The
Schutel couple had no carnal children, but their dedication to the likes was
indelibly marked in Matão's history, since both never stopped attending those
who sought them.\r

After short illness, Cairbar Schutel died in Matão on January 30, 1938. During
and after his greats, countless people from Matão, the surroundings, the State
of São Paulo and several regions of Brazil, paid him a touching tribute of
gratitude and recognition for the work done, and certainly fulfilled his
mission.\r

In fact, the prestigious newspaper A Comarca, from Matão, in its edition of
February 6, 1938, remarked the following: "It is absolutely impossible in Matão
to speak of both our past history and of our history today without mentioning
Cairbar Schutel. Cairbar Schutel was, for Matão, a dynamo driving from his
progress, a dedicated and eloquent herald of his aspirations as a nascent city.
More than that was the man who, as a pharmacist, ran with his knowledge and with
his charity at the head of the sick, in those times when the doctor was still in
the hinterland that bordered on 'Rumo', an authentic 'rare avis'"."\r

Militating in politics for some time, his performance can be translated into the
short paragraph that we transcribe, a fragment of a speech delivered in 1923, in
the State Chamber, by Congressman Dr. Hilário Freire, when that illustrious
parliamentarian presented the project of the creation of the Matão County. Here
he said: "In 1898, the operous, humanitarian and patriotic citizen Mr. Cairbar
de Souza Schutel, employing all the broad political prestige he enjoyed, and
buying with his own resources the building for the installation of the House,
managed, through a project presented and defended by Dr. Francisco de Toledo
Malta, in a long-awaited memory, the creation of the municipality of Matão".\r

Some psychic communications say that the Cairbar Schutel Spirit is, in the
spirit world, charged with the dissemination of Spiritism on Earth; being
confirmed such information, this noble task is very well directed, because the
spiritist movement owes much to the beloved "Bandeirante do Spiritismo", as well
as to his dignified wife Dona Maria Elvira da Silva Schutel, because, as popular
wisdom says, to the Side of a great man there is always a great woman!\r

## Source
[O Consolador (pt-BR)](http://www.oconsolador.com.br/linkfixo/biografias/cairbarschutel.html)



