---
title: Camille Flammarion
date: 2019-02-01 19:00:00
topics: 
- spiritism
- camille-flammarion
- allan-kardec
---

Camille Flammarion was born in France and spent her childhood, entering adolescence with a strong passion for Astronomy. Very young, he wrote a work of great breath on the universe, which came to fall into the hands of a doctor who had come to treat him, when he, impressing with the manuscript, decided to help the talented young man, in which resulted his entry into the Observatory of Paris as an astronomer.\r

As a young student, Flammarion had his first contact with Spiritism, joining the Parisian Society of Spiritist Studies, founded and directed by Allan Kardec.\r

In this opportunity he wrote the book "The Plurality of inhabited Worlds" when he came to know "The Book of Spirits" immediately identifying himself with the work. As the Society's sessions were partly dedicated to psychography, Flammarion began training, aiming to develop this college, and achieving, brought to light the work entitled "General Uranography" signed by Galileo and which is part of the work "The Genesis" by Allan Kardec. Participating in the main Parisian spiritist groups and being secretary of one of them Flammarion enriched his spirit and transcribed into the books the wonders that the invisible transmitted to them. "Earth has no prominence in the solar system in order to be the only inhabited world," he comments as he defended the theory that many other planets would be inhabited.\r

In 1865, under the title "Unknown Natural Forces" he published his first book on psychic research that was a critical study about the phenomena produced by the Davenport brothers and mediums in general.\r

When on March 31, 1869, Allan Kardec said, Flammarion was invited to utter one of the 4 prayers on the edge of the tomb, which made him impressing everyone by affirming the scientific character of Spiritism, the excellence of Kardec's work, the reality of physical sciences in the beyond, the existence of the soul and its indestructibility, eventually considering the disembodied the incarnating common sense incarnated. That same year the Dialectical Society of London began its investigations into the psychic phenomena, with Flammarion being presented before the committee which concluded as the final report, being the subject worthy of more serious attention and careful research than it had been until then.\r

In 1879, his book "Popular Astronomy" is published, considered the best work of its 19th century. He then began to study the psychic phenomenon in what resulted another book of his own, which took the title of "Mysterious Psychic Forces" where he notes: "The psychic phenomenon has for me the print of absolute certainty and uncontestability and extends enough to prove that unknown physical forces exist outside the ordinary and established mastery of natural philosophy."\r

In 1882, already highlighted as a professional, he installed a private observatory, knowing that science, notably Astronomy, as being an old counselor of spiritual truths, would greatly help men in their quests to find God. That same year he founded the magazine "Astronomy" and in 1887 the Astronomical Society of France.\r

In 1899, Flammarion began taking a census on hallucination. Of 4,280 people consulted, 1,824 responded that they had had visions of ghosts. Of this total, 786 cases were collected as evidence value. Reviewed and expanded, these articles formed the substance of the book "The Unknown and psychic problems", reinforcing the evidence of telepathy, appearances of the dead, premonitory dreams and clairvoyance. In the aforementioned work, in view of the whole facts, Flammarion concludes: 1º) the soul exists as a real personality, regardless of the body; 2º) the soul is gifted from faculties still unknown to science; 3) it can act and perceive, at a distance, without the senses as intermediaries; 4) the future is prepared beforehand; determined by the causes that will produce it. The soul perceives it a few times.\r

At the same time dedicated to psychic research, Flammarion developed fruitful studies in the field of Astronomy. In addition to this, he addressed topics about God, political and social reforms, evolution of man, phenomenon of death and psychic research. But evidently, that, as a popularizer of his favorite science, many of his works have dealt with astronomy. This is the case of "Urânia": "The mission of Astronomy is even higher. After I have made you feel and made known that the earth is nothing more than a city in the heavenly homeland, and that man is a citizen of heaven, to go further. Discovering the plan on which the physical universe is built, show that the moral universe is founded on that same plane; that the two worlds form but the same world, and that the Spirit governs matter. (...) Astronomy being is therefore, eminently and first of all, the guideline of Philosophy. And astronomical philosophy is the religion of the superior spirits."\r

That was Flammarion. A poet of heaven, God and nature. A researcher who had the dream of making science religion and religious science, balancing the spirit on his flights by infinity. Scientist emeritus, shining writer, galaxy prospector, dedicated all his talent in showing the wonders God created so that we could define and materialize peace. With the eye on the sky and his hand on paper he was poet enough to transport the stars to Earth, so that they would become just a tiny world lost in the universe. His name shines among the scholars of Spiritism as the suns he researched, and, there is no mist thicker, that one day it will overshadow the magnitude.\r


# English\r
Camille Flammarion was born in Montigny-Le-Roy, today known as Haute-Marne, France, on February 26th, 1842 . He disincarnated in Juvissy, France, on June 4th, 1925.\r

Flammarion was a man whose works enlightened the XIX century. He was the oldest of a family of four children, and at a very young age revealed exceptional qualities. He usually complained that time did not allow him to accomplish a tenth of that which he had planned. At four he already knew how to read, at four and a half knew how to write, and at five already dominated the rudiments of grammar and arithmetic. He turned out to have the highest grades at the school that he attended.\r

In order to be able to follow the ecclesiastical career, he was enrolled with Vicar Lassalle to learn Latin. Through him Flammarion was introduced to the New Testament and Oratory. In a short time he was reading the speeches of Massilon and Bonsuet. Priest Mirbel spoke about the beauty of science and of the greatness of Astronomy and little did he know that one of his students was literally drinking up his words. That student was Camille Flammarion, the one that would illustrate and demonstrate the letter and the Gaelic-Roman significance of his name – Flammarion: “The one who carries the light “.\r

In the religious classes he was taught that only one thing is essential: “the salvation of the soul,” and his teachers said: “Of what use can it be to man to conquer the Universe if he ends up losing his soul?”\r

The life of the Flammarion family was a very difficult one, and Camille understood his father’s merit when he decided to delegate everything he possessed to the creditors. He recognized in him, the most beautiful example of energy and work; however, that situation led him to live with few resources.\r

After a long search, Camille finally found a job as an engraver’s apprentice, and received room and board as part of his payment. He had very little to eat and not of good quality. He slept on a hard bed, with the barest of comforts. The work was rough and his employer was very demanding, as he desired everything to be accomplished quickly. Flammarion intended to complete his studies, particularly mathematics, the English language and Latin. He desired to obtain a bachelor degree, and in order to achieve this he was obliged to study at night by himself. He went to bed late and not always had a candle. He usually wrote under the moonlight, yet he considered himself to be a very happy person. In spite of studying at night, he worked a 15 to16 hours day. He entered the School of Drawing of the Friars of São Roque’s Church, which he attended every Thursdays. Naturally, his Sundays were free and he managed to find a way to occupy himself. On this day he attended the conferences given by the abbot on Astronomy. Soon thereafter he was diffusing the association of the drawing students of São Roque’s Friars, all of the apprentices resided in the neighborhoods. His objective was to dedicate himself to the sciences, literature and drawing, which was quite an ambitious program.\r

At 16 years of age, Camille Flammarion was elected president of the Academy, and when it was inaugurated, Flammarion’s opening speech was “The Marvels of Nature.” At that same time he wrote “Universal Cosmogony,” a book of five hundred pages. His brother, who was very close to him, and he became his bookseller and publisher. Also, at 16 years of age, he wrote his first work called “The World Before the Appearance of Humankind.” He liked Astronomy more than Geology. To summarize his life one could say: to pass with difficulty, to study excessively, and to work in exaggeration.\r

One Sunday he fainted during mass, but in fact it turned out to be a providential fainting. Doctor Edouvard Fornié went to see the patient. Next to his bed there was a manuscript of the book “Universal Cosmology.” After seeing the work, Dr. Fornié thought that Camille deserved a better position, and promised, to place him in the Observatory, as a student of Astronomy. Upon entering the Observatory of Paris, which at the time was managed by Levèrrier, he suffered excessively due to the impertinences of the director’s persecutions. Levèrrier could not conceive of the idea of such a young man actually being able to understand studies of such a transcendental order.\r

Leaving the Observatory of Paris, in 1862, he continued to pursue his studies more freely, thus being able to delegate to Humanity his most beautiful teachings on the silent areas of the Infinite. Free from the suffocating atmosphere of the Observatory, he published the “Plurality of the Inhabited Worlds,” that same year, attracting the attention of all scholars. In order to understand the direction of the aerial currents, in 1868, he researched about aerostatic ascension.\r

For the publication of his “Popular Astronomy,” in 1880 he received the Montyon prize from the French Academy , in 1880, In 1870 he wrote and published a study about the rotation of the celestial bodies, through which he demonstrated that the movement in the rotation of the planets, is an application of the gravity to its respective densities. He became a convicted spiritist, and a personal and dedicated friend of Allan Kardec. He was the speaker designated to give the last rites at the grave of the Codifier of Spiritism, whom he denominated “the reason incarnated.”\r

His works, in a general way, rotate around the spiritist postulates of the plurality of the inhabited worlds. They are the following: “The Imaginary Worlds and the Real Worlds,” “The Celestial Marvels,” “God in Nature,” “Scientific Contemplations,” “Studies and Reading on Astronomy,” “Atmosphere,” “Popular Astronomy,” “ General Description of the Sky,” “The World Before the Appearance of Humankind,” “The Comets,” “The Haunted Houses,” “Narrations of the Infinite,” “Stellar Dream,” “Urânia,” “Estella,” “The Unknown,” “Death and its Mystery,” “Psychic Problems,” “The End of the World,” and others.\r

According to Gabriel Delanne, Camille Flammarion was a philosopher crafted in a wise person, possessing the art of the science and the science of the art. Flammarion–” poet of the Skies,” as he was denominated by Michelet—“became an exponent of Spiritism, because, he was always coherent had unshakable convictions, a true and innovative idealist.\r

## Source
Great Exponents of Spiritism - Spiritist Group of New York, Aug 2002 | TODO:: Add link to SGNY   
[O Consolador (pt-BR)](http://www.oconsolador.com.br/linkfixo/biografias/camilleflammarion.html)



