---
title: Carlos Torres Pastorino
date: 2019-02-01 19:00:00
topics: 
- espiritismo
- brazil
- rio-de-janeiro
---

Born in Rio de Janeiro on November 4, 1910, and disembodied in Brasilia (DF) on
June 13, 1980, Carlos Torres Pastorino, better known as pastorino teacher, was
the son of José Pastorino and Eugenia Torres Pastorino. Since childhood he has
demonstrated unusual intelligence and vocation for ecclesiastical life. At the
age of 14, in 1924, he received the degrees of Geography, Corography and
Cosmography, from Colégio D. Pedro II and, soon after, still in the same year,
the bachelor's degree in Portuguese, in the same college. He traveled to Rome to
attend the Seminary, where in 1929 he was graduated by Cardinal Basilio Pompili
for the Lesser Order of Tonsura. He graduated in Philosophy and Theology in
1932, being ordained a priest in 1934.  He abandoned the ecclesiastical life of
the Roman Catholic Church when, in 1937, he was awaiting promotion for deacon.
He was surprised by Pope Pius XII's refusal to receive the Mahatma Gandhi in his
traditional white attire.  The college of Cardinals demanded that India's great
leader wear a coat, not to break the tradition of interviews with heads of
state. Pastorin, in the face of this refusal, he imagined that if Jesus visited
the Vatican he would not be interviewed with the pope, because he dressed in a
similar way to Gandhi, and would never subject himself to the rigour required by
the Church.

He immediately returned to Brazil and developed intense pedagogical activity. He
joined the Italian-Brazilian Institute of High Culture, as a professor of Latin
and Greek, a position he held from 1937 to 1941. In 1938, he received the record
of professor of Psychology, Logic and History of secondary school philosophy. He
was also a Spanish teacher, as well as contributing as a correspondent in
newspapers. A former priest who dedicated himself to the study of the Spiritist
Doctrine and mediumistic phenomenology, he is the author of the largest
bestseller of self-help published in Brazil: Minutes of Wisdom. Great
intelligence, polyglot, Pastorino also translated books into several languages.
He was also a radio host, his work Minutes of Wisdom being a collection of
messages provided on the radio. He was also a historian, author of plays and
musical compositions. In parallel with the magisterium, he carried out
journalistic activities, as a correspondent for the Associated Diaries. He was a
cultural and journalistic attaché to the Brazilian Academy of Fine Arts.
Esperanto's fan, he converted to Spiritism in 1950. Specialized delegate (Faka
Delegito) of Esperanto Asocio University, based in the Netherlands, was founder
of the Brazilian Society of Esperanto in Rio de Janeiro. His bibliography is
extensive, with more than 50 published books and so many other unpublished ones.

On May 31, 1950, he had finished reading The Book of Spirits by Allan Kardec,
who had received on loan from a colleague at D. Pedro II College, which he did
in just two days. On that day, he declared himself spiritist and, from there,
developed very intense doctrinal activities. In the Grajaú neighborhood, he
began attending the Júlio César Spiritist Center; later founding in his own
residence, at Rua Sete de Setembro, 223, the Spiritist Group of GoodWill, which
would later be called the Spiritus Study Group. From this Group, then, with the
help of Jaime Rolemberg de Lima, lar Fabiano de Cristo, CAPEMI and SEI −
Spiritist Information Service. He founded the Livraria e Editora Wisdom and the
magazine of the same name, providing relevant services to the Doctrine, on the
cultural ground.

Professor Carlos Torres Pastorino held many lectures in Rio de Janeiro and
several other states. He actively participated in Congresses, Spiritist Weeks,
Symposia, Courses and so many other events. He became a partner of numerous
spiritist institutions and collaborated with the national and foreign spiritist
press. From his vast spiritist bibliography, we highlight Minutes of Wisdom,
which broke all the records of sale, in numerous editions, Wisdom of the Gospel,
published in fascicles in the journal Wisdom, and Techniques of Mediumship.
Later, in 1971, the Federal Council of Education approved him as holder of Latin
Language and Literature, Language and Greek Literature (1972) and Linguistics
(1974) for the Federal University of Brasilia. A public translator of French,
Italian and Spanish had already been approved. He spoke fluently several
languages and, thanks to this talent, translated works by several English,
French, Spanish, Italian, Latin and Greek classical authors. His great dream,
however, was the creation of a Free University, to teach Wisdom. In 1973 he
received, by donation, from Dr. Miguel Luz, famous doctor from São Paulo,
already disembodied, magnificent land in a suburban area of Brasilia, called
Park Way, where he began the works of the University. With some dependencies
built, he became resident on site to manage it. He even held several courses,
with his Library in full operation, with the respectable number of 8,000 volumes
acquired throughout its existence, all focused on the general culture and
well-being of humanity. But he passed away before he saw this monumental dream
come true.

Author of 28 published works, including the Wisdom of the Gospel, of which only
eight volumes were edited, translated works by Pietro Ubaldi, of whom he was a
friend, composed thirty-one musical pieces for piano, orchestra, string quartet
and polyphony to three and four voices. Man of action, indefatigable,
Pastorinus, after his disincarnation, did not silence; continued sending us
beautiful pages of beyond, psychographed messages . Here, and here, Carlos
Pastorino more alive than ever, teaching, preaching, writing: death is life, as
we can see in the excellent Impermanence and Immortality, psychographed by
Divaldo P. Franco, published in 2004 by editora da FEB.

(*) The above data were largely extracted from the book Characters of Spiritism
by Antônio de Souza Lucena and Paulo Alves Godoy, Ed. FEESP, 1st ed., 1982, SP,
Brazil. 

## Source
[O Consolador (pt-BR)](http://www.oconsolador.com.br/linkfixo/biografias/carlospastorini.html)



