---
title: Arthur Conan Doyle
date: 2019-02-01 19:00:00
topics: 
- spiritism
- allan-kardec
---

According to wrote the late Prof. José Herculano Pires, prefacing the work of
Arthur Conan Doyle, "History of Spiritism," is a name known and read in the
World.

Gifted Conan Doyle of fertile imagination, natural communicativeness of his
style, the spontaneity of his creations made him a appreciated writer and loved
by all peoples.

In our country the Sherlock Holmes series, the Historical Fiction series and the
series Fantastic Tales and Novels here are to prove the statement made in favor
of the extraordinary writer.

However, it is good to say that he not only stood out in those lines composed of
three series, because in addition to being a historian, he preached the use of
methods scientific research, also stood out as a lucid writer spiritist around
the world, revealing a remarkable understanding of the spiritist problem
in-totum (such as science, philosophy and religion).

So in addition to those series listed at the beginning of these considerations
there are two more series: history and spiritism.

When the first edition of the work "History of Spiritism" is released, the
magazine "Light" highlighted the balance and impartiality with which the matter
was Approached. An extensive Note signed by D.N.G. highlighted that critics had
been "pleasantly surprised" because Conan Doyle, known as ardorous propagandist
of Spiritism, out of an impartiality to all the evidence.  And the writer of the
magazine "Light" continued: "A work of history, written with favorable or
contrary prejudices, it would be at least unartistic, sin never committed by the
author of -- The White Company -- in any of his jobs."

The Author himself defines that criterion when talking about the desire to
contribute to that Spiritism had its history and the purpose of the work was not
to make propaganda of his convictions, but to history the spiritist movement.
Then put yourself impartially and serenely as an observer of the facts unfolding
to his eyes, through time and space. (Ipsis litteris).

Recognizing the magnitude and breadth of the work that was proposed to carry out
asked aid to others and found in Mrs. Leslie Curnow a dedicated and efficient
collaborator and with this help continued investigations until he completed the
Work.

He acknowledged that he had not done a complete work because he did not have to
resources and time, but with satisfaction he found that he did what was possible
at the moment, given the enormous extent and complexity of the subject, in
addition to conditions of difficulties of the spiritist movement itself of the
time. Arthur Conan Doyle was born on 22 May 1859 in Edinburgh, died on 7 July
1930 in Cowborough (Susex), after living 71 very profitable years.

In June 1887 he wrote a letter to the Editor of the magazine "Lìght" explaining
the reasons that he converted to Spiritism. This letter was published in the
edition 2 July 1887 of that journal and republished in the 27th edition of
August 1927. On July 15, 1929 the "International Journal of the Spiritism", by
Matão, São Paulo, directed by Cairbar Schutel, published in the Brazil the first
full translation of that letter, an important document, where the young doctor
in 1887 revealed a broad understanding of Spiritism and the importance of of the
Message that the Doctrine brought to the whole world.

Conan Doyle even wrote a short book translated by Guillon Ribeiro and under the
title "The New Revelation", which describes in detail how it took place its
Conversion. Other doctrinal works of great merit, revealing perfect
understanding of the religious problem of Spiritism, affirming the condition
essentially psychic of the Spiritist religion, "The Psychic Religion".

The doctrine of reincarnation determined the appearance of a divergence between
what was established called Latin Spiritism and Anglo-Saxon Spiritism.  These,
particularly the English and Americans, although they accepted the Doctrine
Spiritist did not admit the ReincarnationIst Principle and this motivated the
attacks and criticism of Spiritism. Although the resistance maintained in
England and United States against the ReincarnationIst Principle, Conan Doyle
and other Renowned American and English spiritists admitted reincarnation.

In the work "The New Revelation", Conan Doyle declares that "many scholars have
been attracted to Spiritism, one by the religious aspect, others by the
scientific, but so far no one has tried to establish the exact relationship that
exists between the two aspects of the problem." This was written between 1927
and 1928, sixty years after Kardec's disincarnation.

We know that Kardec defined and solved that problem by presenting the Spiritism
as doctrine under the triple aspect: philosophical, scientific and Religious.

And Conan Doyle identified himself with Kardec's thinking, waiting for the
kardequian coding appeared, without realizing that it already existed and was at
the your side, beyond the English Channel.


## Fonte
[Personangens do Espiritismo](http://espiritaespiritismoberg.blogspot.com/2014/08/arthur-conan-doyle.html)

