---
title: Corina Novelino
date: 2019-02-01 19:00:00
topics: 
- spiritism
- brasil
- chico-xavier
- charity
- euripedes-barsanulfo
---

Born in the city of Delfinópolis, State of Minas Gerais, on August 12, 1912, and
disincarnated in Sacramento, in that same state, on February 10, 1980, Corina
Novelino was the daughter of the couple José Gonçalves Novelino and Josefina de
Novel Meloino. He had four more brothers: Geni, Eusarpia, Jandira and Euripides
Novelino.

In Delphipolis he spent very little of his childhood. Her parents transferred
residency to Sacramento when she was still too much of a child. She was enrolled
at Allan Kardec College, founded and run by Euripides Barsanulfo, having the
privilege of being her student, an opportunity she knew how to take advantage to
follow her examples. She became dear to the whole community, being considered a
benemérita educator and true lady of charity, for everything she accomplished in
favor of that city, because as a young man became orphaned by father and mother,
becoming a resident of a couple who dispensed him with all love and affection.

The task developed by Corina Novelino, in the city of Sacramento, was one of the
most relevant. From a very young age, a charitable Spirit has been revealed,
with deep tears of detachment, willing to give everything of himself in favor of
his fellow men.

At the age of twenty, she was invited by a seareira denoda, named Maria Modesto
Cravo, to help her run a Children's Home in the mining town of Uberaba.
Undecided on the invitation sought guidance from medium Francisco Cândido
Xavier, then resident in Pedro Leopoldo. Due to the high number of people
looking for the medium, he could not interview himself with him. However, great
was his surprise when he was called by him, receiving from his hands beautiful
message signed by the Spirit of Euripides Barsanulfo, in which, among other
things, he said, "Corina, you are my last hope in Sacramento." Given the
imperative of the message, she declined maria modesta's invitation and,
reflecting later, understood that she should not accept the invitation to
Uberaba, continuing in the work he had already been developing in Sacramento,
where she founded the Clube das Mãezinhas, composed of charitable mothers who
were willing to make robes for children in need, who were distributed weekly.

On the threshold of the year 1950, he decided to found a Home for abandoned
children. However, in addition to missing the necessary means, he did not know
where or how to implement that institution. The largest raffle held in
Sacramento provided him with the means necessary to acquire a house and there
inaugurate the House of Euripides.

He applied his salary to the maintenance of the Home. However, the number of
children increased and resources were thus increasingly scarce. The house had
also become small.

Excited of unbreakable decision and relying on the help of alto, decided to
build a new Home of Euripides. The people of Sacramento and neighboring regions
cooperated in the enterprise and, in little, the new building appeared, where
more than 100 children were supported and where the selfless seareira became the
"Corina mother". Due to the lack of resources for its maintenance, because the
establishment was kept almost completely with corina novelino's salary, there
were appeals and the Home was recognized as a public utility body, then going
from boarding to semi-boarding school . There children spend the day, receiving
food, clothing and intellectual and religious education.

In addition to being a writer, she has also collaborated in the press since
Hamilton Wilson, Euripides' brother, founded the newspaper The Tribune in
Sacramento. He also collaborated in the newspapers State of the Triangle and
Jornal de Sacramento, both of which are of great circulation. As a writer, the
excellent book bequeathed us: Euripides. Man and mission, who came to light on
the centenary of the birth of Euripides. He also published Listen to my Son,
whose income reverted entirely to the Home of Euripides. For many years he also
collaborated with the Spiritist Yearbook, of Araras. Several bodies of the
Spiritist press published their articles.

It was undeniably the devoted continuation of the work of Euripides Barsanulfo.
Fulfilling to the end the mission to which he obliged himself, faithfully, to
the dear Master.

By his spirit of work and understanding, he received the support of many
companions, dedicating himself to the dissemination of the Doctrine. He has
regimented a large number of collaborators to propagate the sublime ideal. The
field of work of Corina's mother was a true barn for those who already shared
the Spiritist ideal, as well as for neophytes, attracted by their examples.

Corina Novelino has mildered throughout her life in the magisterium as a teacher
at Allan Kardec College and also the Sacramento State College. It has educated
several generations to give full support to youth in all its enterprises, with
the most decided support and guidance.

He founded the Club of The Mothers, inviting ladies from sacrament society to
sew robes and hoovais for poor children, now under the direction of Heigorina,
considers one of its continuations, whose distribution is even made to
neighboring cities.

It is worth saying that the Lar de Euripides was maintained for a long time with
the salary of teacher. In 1976 it was recognized as State Public Utility, by
Decree N 18,160, of 11/03/1976, taking the name of Institute of Promotional and
Educational Character to Minors, supported more than 100 poor children.

Indefatigable creature, always willing to cooperate, Corina Novelino took a
prominent part in sacramento's socioeconomic, religious and cultural life. He
collaborated in all newspapers in the city, collaborated in other organs of
dissemination of Spiritism and in a magazine edited in Portugal.

His life was fraught with actions in good and dedication to the like. His
disincarnation represented irreparable loss to the sacrament community. Great
emptiness was made in the city, as great as the sadness of those who lost the
warmth, tenderness and dedication of a friend.

The following were the words of the Mayor of Sacramento, on the occasion of the
burial of his physical body: "May the Flag of Sacramento cover its aude in a
demonstration of greater homage that the public power lends to its great
children. Here the gratitude of all a people who recognized in their humble and
silent labor the 'Mother Corina' of all. With the help of her hands, it was not
a few times that we witnessed his love, in the forgetfulness of herself, calling
for himself the responsibility of this enormous task of promoting others. It was
Mother Corina of the poor, of the sufferers, the orphans, the crazy, the needy,
the abandoned, the wretched... Mother Corina of all of us, our eternal and
immorretor Thank you very much."

Corina contributed in a remarkable way to the Spiritist movement of Sacramento,
in which she had close relations of friendship and laborious activities, both in
the doctrinal and care field. An example of work and selflessness.

The disincarnation of Corina Novelino occurred on February 10, 1980, in
Sacramento. She had been admitted to the Holy House of Mercy on the threeth, of
the same month, affected by a stroke. The whole Spiritist family felt their
disappearance from physical life, embezzlement of one of the most faithful
disciples of Allan Kardec and Jesus.

## Source
[O Consolador (pt-BR)](http://www.oconsolador.com.br/linkfixo/biografias/delphine.html)



