---
title: Deolindo Amorim
date: 2019-02-01 19:00:00
topics: 
- spiritism
- brazil
- spiritist-congress
---

Deolindo Amorim was born on January 23, 1908, although in his documents is in
1906, in the city of Baixa Grande, State of Bahia and defaced in Rio de Janeiro,
on April 24, 1989. Son of Deolindo Antonio de Amorim and Maria Flora de Amorim
married Delta dos Santos Amorim, with whom he had his children: Paulo Henrique
Amorim (journalist and correspondent abroad), and Marília dos Santos Amorim.\r

Born into a Catholic family, he converted to Protestantism, by the Presbyterian
Church of Bahia, in 1925/1926, having participated in the great campaign that
evangelical believers held in southern Bahia in defense of religious freedom,
against the amendments that were discussed at the time in the National Congress.
He was selected to study in an evangelical seminary to be a pastor, but did not
even make a profession of faith. He left Protestantism when he was admonished by
a pastor, when he read a book of non-Evangelical literature, with the following
words: Look, my brother, who is dedicated to the Ministry of the Lord, must
despise all these things.\r

Self-taught, his vocation for literature manifested himself early. His first
works on evangelical topics were edited when he was 17 years old, in a
Protestant publication in Canavieiros, Bahia, called evangelical Northwest.
However, it was years of demand; became agnostic, but doubts and depressions
were always present. Until in 1935, he was invited by a friend, to attend a
meeting at the Spiritist CenterJorge Niemeyer, in Rio de Janeiro, a city where
he lived since he served the Army. Deolindo not only liked the lecture and
concepts heard there, but also became a frequent visitor of the Center, also
studying the basic works. In the first election, held after his conversion, he
was elected 1st Secretary of the Entity.\r

At the age of 23, he had journalistic activities. In Rio he collaborated with
the Jornal do Comércio, then moving to A Vanguarda. And, already, as a
professional journalist unionized he moved to The Radical. He was faithful to
journalism until the end of his physical life.\r

With his vast culture and talent, added to the humility that was peculiar to
him, he was a writer of the Spiritist World, a newspaper launched in Rio de
Janeiro, then transferred to Curitiba, Paraná, and was his correspondent in Rio
until the last days of physical life. He collaborated with most newspapers and
spiritist magazines in Brazil and abroad.\r

In 1939, together with Lins de Vasconcelos, he participated in the Lay Pro-State
Coalition. It was also in 1939, on November 15, when Brazil celebrated the
fiftieth anniversary of the Proclamation of the Republic, which installed and
chaired the 1st Brazilian Congress of Journalists and Spiritist Writers.\r

In 1948, together with Leopoldo Machado and other confreres, he organized the
1st Congress of Spiritist Mocidades do Brasil. He was secretary of the 2nd Pan
American Spiritist Congress, held in Rio de Janeiro in 1949 and subsequently
elected secretary of the Pan American Spiritist Confederation (CEPA), during the
three-year period in which this International Organization operated in Brazil.
Deolindo Amorim launched, in Brazil, didactic methods for the dissemination of
Spiritism and, with this objective, founded the Faculty of Psychic Studies,
which in turn would be successful by the Institute of Spiritist Culture of
Brazil (ICEB). While he lived, he was your president. He dedicated the best
years of his life to ICEB, implementing, there, the Regular Courses of the
Spirit, as recommended by Allan Kardec.\r

He wrote, among others, the books: Spiritism and spiritualist doctrines;
Spiritism and Criminology; Africanism and Spiritism; Spiritist Ideas and
Reminiscences; Spiritism and Human Problems; Spiritism in the Light of Criticism
and the opuscules The ImmortalIst Sense of The Thought of Leonio Correia; April
18 − Great Spiritist Date; Allan Kardec − Man, The Time, the Middle, the
Influences, the Mission and The Philosophical Thought of Léon Denis.\r

Many of his works were shed for several languages. He also had some books
written in partnership with other confreres and, after their disincarnation,
some more were published at the initiative of journalist and spiritist writer
Celso Martins, who has done meticulous research in the national press, bringing
together the deolindo works and by eifting them in books.\r


Graduated in Sociology from the National Faculty of Philosophy, University of
Brazil, Deolindo Amorim also had the diplomas of the courses of advertising
technician and social services, besides having been an employee of the Ministry
of Finance, where he held high Positions. He was also a member of the Academy of
Letters of the State of Rio de Janeiro, the Brazilian Society of Philosophy, the
Historical and Geographical Institute of Bahia and the Brazilian Press
Association.\r

Also, at the VI Brazilian Congress of Journalists and Spiritist Writers, held in
July 1976, in Brasilia, the Brazilian Association of Journalists and Spiritist
Writers (ABRAJEE) was founded, ideal that he and other confreres had cherished
for years. Deolindo was the first President of this entity.\r

It is not without reason that Deolindo Amorim is the most widespread Brazilian
spiritist writer and journalist abroad. His culture and dynamism, the clear way
of placing the concepts of the Doctrine to the public, allied to his humility,
account for his success in the four corners of the world and certainly also in
the Spiritual Plan.\r
 
## Source
[O Consolador (pt-BR)](http://www.oconsolador.com.br/linkfixo/biografias/deolindo.html)



