---
title: The Fox Sisters
date: 2019-02-01 19:00:00
topics: 
- spiritism
- usa
- mediumship
- mediums
- turning-tables
- materialization
- hitting-spirits
---

In March 1848, in the small village of Hydesville, in the United States of North America, the first Spiritist phenomena of modern times took place, which represented the prelude to the advent of the Spiritist Doctrine, consummated with the Kardequian Codification.

On December 11, 1847, the Fox family settled in a modest home in Hydesville, New York, about 30 km from Rochester City. The group consisted of the head of the family, John Fox, wife Margareth Fox and two daughters; Kate and Margareth, then teenagers. The couple had other children. Among these, it is worth mentioning Leah, who lived in Rochester, where she taught music. Leah wrote a book, The Missing Link, in 1885, in which she refers to the paranormal faculties of her previous relatives.

Initially the Foxs suffered no discomfort in their new residence. However, some time later, more precisely in the first two months of 1848, the same unusual noises that disturbed the former tenants again manifested themselves. Some time after this change, its occupants began to hear scratches, unusual noises and blows, vibrated in the lining of the room, on the floor, on the walls and in the furniture, which began to be a real concern for that humble family.

Such noises grew in intensity from mid-March 1848. Sharper beats and similar sounds when dragging furniture began to be heard, putting the girls on the heels, to the point of refusing to sleep alone in their room and wanting to sleep in their parents' room. At first, the inhabitants of the house, incredulous about the possible supernatural origin of noises, rose and sought to locate the natural cause of the phenomenon. Lucretia Pulver, a young woman who had served as the bell couple's lady-in-waiting, when she lived the house until 1846, told a curious story of a mascate who had stayed with the Bells. On a night when the salesman spent with that couple, Lucretia was sent to sleep in her parents' house. Three days later they looked for her again. So they told you the muscat was gone. She never saw this man again. Ms. Ann Pulver, who had sex with the Bell family, reports that in 1844, when she visited Ms. Bell, going knitting her company, she had heard a complaint. You told him you felt really bad and barely slept at night. When asked about the cause, Mrs Bell declared that it was unexplained rumors; seemed to have heard someone walk from one room to another; then he had woken up her husband and made him get up and lock the windows. At first, he explained to Mrs. Pulver that it might be rats. She later confessed not to know why such rumors, for her unexplained. The Bells eventually moved in.

On the night of March 31, 1848, a means of contacting the spiritual entity that produced the phenomena was discovered. The couple's younger daughter, Kate, said, clapping: Mr. Cracked Foot, do what I do. Immediately, the spanking was repeated. When she stopped, the sound also stopped. In the face of that answer, Margareth then said, jokingly, Now do exactly like me. Count one, two, three, four, and clapping. What she had requested was repeated with incredible accuracy. Kate, ahead, said, in her childish simplicity: Oh! Mom! I already know what it is, tomorrow is April 1st and someone wants to ask us a lie.  The mother later reported: So I thought i'd take a test that no one would be able to answer. I asked for the ages of my children to be indicated successively. Instantly it was given the exact age of each, pausing from one to another in order to separate until the seventh, after which a longer pause was taken and three stronger beats were given, corresponding to the age of the minor, who had died. So I said, Is it a human being who answers me so correctly? There was no answer. I said, Is it a spirit? If it is, take two beats. Two beats were heard as soon as I made the request. So I said, If it's a murdered spirit, give me two beats. These were given instantly, producing a tremor in the house. I said, Were you murdered in this house? The answer was like the precedent. The person who murdered him still lives? Identical answer, by two beats. In the same process I found that he had been a man who had murdered him in this house and his spoils buried in the cellar; that the family consisted of wife and five children, two boys and three girls, all alive at the time of his death, but that then his wife had died. So I said, will you continue to knock if we call the neighbors to listen too? The affirmative answer was high.

Everyone was shaken by the events. One week Mrs. Fox turned gray. And as everything suggested that the phenomena were linked to the two girls, Margareth and Kate, they were driven away from home. But at her brother David Fox's house, where Margareth went, and at her sister Leah's house, where Kate stayed, the same noises were heard. Leah, the older sister, had to interrupt music classes, as she also became an intermediary of phenomena. It turned out that the communicating Spirit was a former street vendor named Charles Rosma, who thus sought to reveal his presence and contact the people of the house. The guy carrying that name had been murdered at hydesville's house years earlier. The murdered man revealed that he had been killed with a butcher's knife five years earlier; that the body had been taken to the cellar; that it wasn't the next night alone that he had been buried; had passed through the pantry, went down the stairs, and buried approximately three meters from the ground. He also said that the crime mobile phone had been the money he owned, about five hundred dollars. Those most interested in clarifying the case decided to dig the cellar, aiming to find the spoils of the alleged murdered. It is good to clarify that they have reached the identity and history of the Spirit through an alphabetical combination according to which each letter was indicated by a certain number of strokes. Charles Rosma had been mascates and was 31 years old when he was murdered in that house. The killer was a former tenant. It could only have been Mr. Bell. But where does proof of the fact, the victim's corpse? The solution would be to look for him in the cellar, where he'd be buried. The excavations, however, did not lead to definitive results, because they gave us water, without finding any clue. That's why they've been suspended.

In the summer of 1848, Mr. David Fox himself, assisted by some interested parties, resumed the venture. At a depth of one and a half meters, they found a board. Indepth the grave, they found coal, lime, hair and some bone fragments that were recognized by a doctor as belonging to the human skeleton; nothing more. The evidence of the crime was precarious and insufficient, which is perhaps why Mr. Bell was not reported.  On November 23, 1904, the Boston Journal recorded the discovery in the old Fox hut of a man's skeleton with all the trinkets proper to a muscat. Boys from a school thought they were playing in the cellar of the house where the Foxs lived, which was then abandoned, because it was reputed to be haunted. Amid the rubble of a wall - perhaps false − that had existed in the cellar, the boys found parts of a human skeleton. Next to the skeleton was found a can of a usual species used by mascates. This can is now located in Lilydale, the central headquarters of American spiritists, where hydesville's old house was transported. As the reader can see, 56 years after the Hydesville phenomena on November 22, 1904, the story of Charles Rosma, reported to Kate and Margareth Fox's family, in 1848, was proven.

Upon transferring residence to Rochester, John Fox's family came across the first obstacle: the pastor of the Methodist church, to which they belonged, intimated the girls, on penalty of expulsion, to abjure such practices. This imposition was repelled by the Fox sisters, so they were expelled from that religious community. In Rochester, the girls had to undergo three public investigations, carried out at Corinthian Hall, and suffered at the hands of investigators. In the course of the research, they were naked and then, when they dressed, they had their dresses tied, tight in the bodies, putting them on an insulating floor, apart from other precautions to avoid the possibility of fraud. In the end, the various commissions that formed with this objective stated that different beats were heard on the walls, on the floor and other objects, and the sisters were tied up. And that his questions, of which some were asked mentally, had been answered correctly.  

## Source
[O Consolador (pt-BR)](http://www.oconsolador.com.br/linkfixo/biografias/irmasfox.html)

