---
title: Franz Anton Mesmer
date: 2019-02-01 19:00:00
topics: 
- church
- magnetism
- physical-effects
- germany
- mozart
- vienna
---

Born on May 23, 1734, in Iznang, a village near Lake Constance, the son of the couple Franciscus Antonius Mesmer and Maria Ursula Michel, members of a large Catholic family from Swabia, a region that now belongs to Germany. Mesmer defaced on March 5, 1815. \r

In 1743, he was taken by his parents to the Reichenau monastery in Constance, where he studied languages, classical literature and music with the monks for six years. Provided with resources, he devoted himself to long scientific studies, coming to dominate the knowledge of his time, time of sharp intellectual pride and skepticism. He was a tireless, calm, patient worker and still an expert musician. He constantly frequented occult circles, places where he obtained knowledge of alchemy. He studied in depth the life and work of Paracelsus (1493-1541), which understood that there was correspondence between the outside world − the macrocosm − and the different parts of the organism − the microcosm. \r

In 1750, he joined the Jesuit University of Dillingen, Bavaria, where he studied philosophy for four years, reaching his doctorate. Read the works of Galileo, Descartes, Leibniz, Kepler, Newton etc. In 1754, he began the ology course at the University of Ingolstadt, also in Bavaria. Five years later, in 1759, he joined the University of Vienna, dedicating his first year at this university to the study of the laws. He moved soon after to medical school. Six years later, on May 27, he earned his doctorate with a dissertation inspired by Newton's work and perhaps Paracelsus. In this text, which deals with the influence of the planets on the human body, used for the first time the concept of universal fluid.\r

Mesmer's graduation thesis referred to a medicine of other times: From The Planetarum In Corpus Humanum Influx. In it, he described the influence of the planets through a universal fluid with magnetic powers on living matter. He also alluded to animal magnetism, which, according to him, existed in two opposite forms and would tend to emanating from the right and left sides of the human body. He explained that the cure of diseases consisted in the restoration of balance or altered harmony between fluids. Based on these theories, Mesmer built his therapeutic technique using eye fixation and hand-held passes. Mesmer's theories stated that an imponderable principle acted on the bodies. Throughout the living organism there was a magnetic fluid in which a special force circulated, animating both the organic and inorganic world; that this fluid was transmitted, and may invigorate the debilitated bodies; that people with great vitality could transmit this energy to others if they knew how to drive it, using their hands. \r

Mesmer married Maria Anna Von Bosch in a busy ceremony on 10 January 1768, celebrated in the cathedral of St Stephen by the Archbishop of Vienna. He moved to a mansion in Landstrasse, where he promoted musical soires with Mozart, Gluck, Haydn and others. Also in 1768, in October, debuted in the theater of his garden the first presentation in Vienna of a Mozart opera.\r

The first treatment by animal magnetism began in 1773. The patient was a kine of Mesmer's wife and friend of Mozart's family, Franziska Sterling, a very debilitated 29-year-old miss. Later, in 1790, Mesmer was honored by Mozart in his opera Così fan tutte. At the end of the first act, the character Despina, dressed as a doctor, imitates Mesmer and his treatment.\r

In 1775, with the little welcome given to its discovery, it is determined to do nothing more publicly in Vienna. After many experiences, he recognizes that he can heal by applying his hands. She believes she's going to give away a fluid that reaches the patient. Of all the bodies of nature , he declared then −, he is the man himself who most effectively acts on man. The disease would be just a disharmony in the balance of the creature. He, who charged nothing for the treatments, preferred to take care of disorders related to the nervous system. In addition to the laying on of hands on patients, to extend the benefit to the largest number of people, magnetized water, dishes, bed, etc., to whose contact subjected the sick.\r

He defined animal magnetism as an individual's ability to cause effects similar to mineral magnetism in another person. In 1776, Mesmer stopped making use of the magnet as a simple conductor of animal magnetism, to avoid misunderstanding on the part of doctors and physicists. Keep using water, bottles, iron bars. The following year, she accepted as a patient the famous pianist Maria Theresa Paradis, healing her blindness, a fact that generated many controversies.\r

In the fight for the dissemination of Animal Magnetism, Mesmer arrives in Paris in February 1778 and begins to present his findings to the scholars and doctors of this capital, withdrawing to the city of Creteil in May, along with some patients. It orders commissioners of the Royal Society of Medicine of Paris to tax the cures, which has been refused. Mesmer practiced for years his treatment method in Vienna and Paris, with evident success, but ended up expelled from both cities for the envy and misunderstanding of many. After five attempts to obtain judicious examination of its method of healing by academies, it publishes, in 1779, the Dissertation on the discovery of animal magnetism, in which it states that this is a science with principles and rules, although still little Known. His findings were based on 27 theses. Here are some: Through this fluid, nerve diseases are healed immediately and their virtues can extend to universal healing and the preservation of humanity, to such a high degree, that it was not known how far it could go. There is a reciprocal influence between celestial bodies, the earth and all animated organisms. Universal fluid is the agent of this influence. This reciprocal action is subject to the laws of mechanics. The bodies enjoy properties analogous to the magnet. These properties can be transmitted to other animated or inanimate bodies. The disease is only the result ing of the lack or imbalance in the distribution of magnetism by the body. \r

Mesmer's work, due to his methods and these miraculous cures, provoked an uproar in Paris. There he was worshipped by many and persecuted by others, especially by fellow doctors who called him charlatan and scam. His popularity continued for many years, but other doctors thought he was impostor and charlatan. In a final attempt, he proposes to the Faculty of Medicine of Paris in 1780 a comparative test of his method with traditional medicine. On September 18, there was a general assembly and, after a reading and a speech, d'Eslon, his disciple, was excluded from the doctors' staff and Mesmer's propositions were rejected with disdain and animosity. Then, in 1781, Mesmer published what would become the most important historical description of the science of animal magnetism. In 1784, the French government appointed a commission of doctors and scientists to investigate their activities. Benjamin Franklin was one of the members of this committee, who eventually noticed the veracity of cures, but attributed them not to animal magnetism, but to other unknown physiological causes.\r

Mesmer sends a letter to Benjamin Franklin denouncing the misconceptions of the commission appointed to examine d'Eslon, unauthorized to act on his behalf, and the impropriety of the method adopted. The King of France appoints a committee of scholars from the Paris Academy of Sciences – Bailly, Darcet, Franklin, Lavoisier −, who in four months concluded that Mesmer's propositions were nothing more than imagination, and drafted a secret report claiming implications Sexual. Another commission of doctors from the Royal Society of Medicine also rejected the existence of animal magnetism. However, one of its members, Jussieu, diverged from colleagues and admitted healings. In 1785, some of Mesmer's disciples published the notes of his classes. In 1790, his wife, von Posh, died of breast cancer. Returning to Vienna in 1793, he was arrested by police because he was being investigated for political reasons, suspected of being favorable to the Jacobins. Released, he was in custody until December 5. It would continue, however, to be observed by the authorities. Mesmer then finds himself forced to withdraw from Paris and, vilified, settles in a small Swiss town, where he lived for 20 years always serving those in need and without ever discouraging or complaining.\r

A group of doctors at the Berlin Academy rediscover their whereabouts, but, already seventy-five, he does not agree to accompany them. In 1812, at the age of 78, the Berlin Academy of Sciences invited him to provide clarification, as he intended to thoroughly investigate magnetism. It was late; he refused the invitation. The Church too condemned magnetism, and, by table, to him. In 1813, a French theologian wrote that "sleepwalking and magnetism were supernatural and diabolical, anti-Christian, anti-Catholic and antimoral. Everything came from the action of fluids of infernal origin." The Academy instructs Professor Wolfart to interview him. The testimony of this teacher is one of the most beautiful about the charitable doctor: I found him dedicating himself to the hospital chosen by himself. Add to this a treasure trove of real knowledge in all branches of Science, such as hardly accumulating a wise man, an immense goodness of heart that is revealed in all its being, in his words and actions, and a wonderful force of suggestion about the sick. In early 1814, he returned to Iznang, his homeland, where he would remain his last days until he died on March 5, 1815, at the age of 81.\r

## Source
[O Consolador (pt-BR)](http://www.oconsolador.com.br/linkfixo/biografias/franzanton.html)

