---
title: Francisco Peixoto Lins (Peixotinho)
date: 2019-02-01 19:00:00
topics: 
- spritism
- peixotinho
- chico-xavier
- materializacao
- ectoplasma
- world-war-II
- scheilla
- psychophony
- psychography
---

He was born in pacatuba, State of Ceará, on February 1, 1905, disembodiment in
the city of Campos, State of Rio de Janeiro, on June 16, 1966.

His parents were Miguel Peixoto Lins and Joana Alves Peixoto. Very early became
orphaned by father and mother and began to live with his maternal uncles, in
Fortaleza, State of Ceará, where he took the primary course. He then enrolled in
the Catholic Seminary, according to the desire of his uncles, who wished to see
him pursue his ecclesiastical career. In seminary, he suffered several
disciplinary sentences for expressing doubts to his educators about the dogmas
of the Church. Observing human inequalities, both in the physical and social
fields, he was in doubt about God's fatherhood and kindness. If they were all
his children, why were so many diversities? Why are unhonorable reasons ones
born physically perfect and otherwise deformed? Some bearers of angelic virtues
and others affected with bad character? He then said: If God exists, it is not
this unilateral being that the Catholic religion speaks of. He wanted to know
and inquiria his confessors, who, in the face of the boy's bold questions, used
punishment and penance as corrective.

At the age of 14, he gave up seminary and, with the permission of uncles, he
moved to the State of Amazonas, in search of better days, facing the arduous
work of the seringals. There he worked about two years, deciding to return to
Fortaleza. At this stage of his life, in him the first indications of his
extraordinary mediumship, in the form of terrible obsession, were manifested.
Surrounded by less enlightened spirits, he was taken from strange physical
strength, becoming able to fight several men and beat them, despite being under
18 and being physically frowning. This anomalous state happened at any time and
Peixotinho, fearing more serious consequences, decided not to leave the house
anymore. There he was affected by a new influence of the clover Spirits, being
detached from the body about 20 hours, in a catatic state, almost being buried
alive, because his family members had given him as disembodied.

After that episode, he suffered a paralysis that prostrated him in a bed of pain
for six months. At this stage, one of his neighbors, a member of a Spiritist
society in Fortaleza, moved with intimate compassion for his sufferings,
requested permission from his family to provide him with spiritual help with
passes and prayers. No one in his house was aware of Spiritism and his family
members also did not attain the true state of the patient, since the medical
treatment to which he undertook did not give him any hope of re-establishment.
His neighbor began treatment with the Gospel in the Home, applying passes to him
and giving him to drink fluid water. In order to distract himself, Peixotinho
began reading some spiritist novels and later the works of the Kardequiana
Codification. In less than a month he presented a significant improvement in his
physical state and progressively released himself from false illness.

As soon as he managed to walk, he went to attend the Spiritist Center where
Major Vianna de Carvalho was a millionaire, who at the time was serving the
National Army in Fortaleza. The terrible obsession was your Damascus Road. The
knowledge of the law of reincarnation came to equate the old problems that
plagued his mind, diriming all doubts that seminary had failed to undo. He thus
began to understand God's immeasurable goodness, giving the same opportunity to
all his children on the journey towards spiritual redemption.

Guided by Major Vianna de Carvalho, Peixotinho began its psychic development. He
became one of the most famous mediums of materializations and physical effects.
Through their own, the famous luminous materializations and a series of the most
peculiar phenomena were produced, all within the greatest seriousness and in the
molds precepted by the Spiritist Doctrine.

In 1926, he was summoned to military service and transferred to Rio de Janeiro,
being included in an army battalion in the city of Macaé. There he dedicated
himself with love to the practice of Spiritism and, with a group of selfless
companions, founded the Spiritist Center Pedro, an institution that, for a long
time, was his workshop.

In 1933, he became a member of Benedita Vieira Fernandes, whose marriage they
had several children. Due to his military career, he was transferred several
times, serving in Imbituba, Santa Catarina; Santos, São Paulo; in the former
Federal District and Campos, Rio de Janeiro. Where I arrived, I was soon trying
to serve the spiritist cause.

In 1945, in the city of Rio de Janeiro, he met several confreres, including
Antônio Alves Ferreira, an old partner in the Spiritist Group Pedro, macaé. At
that time he began to attend Christian Worship in the Home, performed
systematically in the residence of that confrere. Later, joining Jacques Aboab
and Amadeu Santos, they decided to found the Spiritist Group André Luiz, which
initially worked on Rua Moncorvo Filho, 27, where the most beautiful sessions of
luminous materializations were produced, which dr. Rafael Ranieri was asked the
opportunity to release a book with that same title. Peixotinho also provided his
valuable contest as a prescription medium and curator.

In 1948, meeting for the first time with medium Francisco Cândido Xavier, in the
city of Pedro Leopoldo, had the opportunity to provide the confreres of that
city, beautiful sessions of materializations and assistance to the sick.

In 1949, he was permanently transferred to the city of Campos, where he
participated in the work of the Joana D'Arc Group. He also founded the Spiritist
Group Araci, in honor of his spiritual guide.

Peixotinho suffered from bronchopneumonia, a disease that caused him many
sorrows, but he endured everything with stoicism, the same being could be said
of the slander slander stemming from which he was a victim, as are victims all
serious mediums who put themselves at the service of the Gospel of Jesus, giving
for free what they receive for free.

## Source
[O Consolador (pt-BR)](http://www.oconsolador.com.br/linkfixo/biografias/franciscopeixoto.html)

## See Also
[Peixotinho e a Materialização dos Espíritos](https://youtu.be/bl51O_26hxw)
[Peixotinho - Documentário 1/2](https://youtu.be/inSwo2NRNXE)
[Peixotinho - Documentário 2/2](https://youtu.be/GlLqYLsrWF4)


