---
title: José Herculano Pires
date: 2019-02-01 19:00:00
topics: 
- spiritism
- herculano-pires
---

José Herculano Pires was born in the city of Avaré, in the state of São Paulo on
September 25, 1914 and defaced on March 9, 1979. Son of pharmacist José Pires
Correia and pianist Bonina Amaral Simonetti Pires, he did his first studies in
Avaré, Itaí and Cerqueira César.

He revealed his literary vocation since he began writing. At the age of 9 he
made his first sonnet, a decassyllo over Largo São João, from his hometown. At
the age of 16 he published his first book, "Blue Dreams" (short stories), and at
the age of 18 the second book, "Coração" (free poems and sonnets). He had
several short stories published with illustrations in Revista da Semana and
Malho.

He was one of the founders of the Artistic Union of the Interior (UAI), which
promoted two literary contests, one of poems by the headquarters of the IAU in
Cerqueira César, and another of short stories by the Sorocaba Section.

Mário Graciotti included it among the permanent collaborators of the literary
section of "A Razão" in São Paulo, which published a poem of his own every
Sunday. He transformed (1928) his father's political newspaper into a literary
weekly and organ of the UAI. He moved to Marília in 1940 (aged 26), where he
acquired the newspaper "Diário Paulista" and directed it for six years.

With José Geraldo Vieira, Zoroastro Gouveia, Osório Alves de Castro, Nichemaja
Sigal, Anthol Rosenfeld and others, promoted, through the newspaper, a literary
movement in the city and published "Estradas e Ruas" (poems) that Érico
Veríssimo and Sérgio Millet commented Favorably.

In 1946 he moved to São Paulo and released his first novel, "O Caminho do Meio",
which deserved rave reviews from Afonso Schmidt, Geraldo Vieira and Wilson
Martins.

Reporter, writer, secretary, parliamentary chronicler and literary critic of the
Associated Diaries, performed these functions on Rua 7 de Abril for about thirty
years.

Author of 81 books of Philosophy, Essays, Stories, Psychology, Pedagogy,
Parapsychology, Novels and Spiritism, several in partnership with Chico Xavier,
most of them entirely dedicated to the study and dissemination of the Spiritist
Doctrine.

He released the essay series Thought of the Cosmic Age and the series of novels
and novels of Paranormal Science Fiction.

He claimed to suffer from graphomania, writing day and night. He had no academic
vocation and did not follow literary schools.

His only goal was to communicate what he thought was necessary, in the best
possible way.

Graduated in Philosophy from USP in 1958, he published an existential thesis:
"The Being and serenity".

From 1959 to 1962, he held the chair of philosophy of education at the Faculty
of Philosophy, Sciences and Letters of Araraquara.

He was a full member of the Brazilian Institute of Philosophy, a section of São
Paulo, where he taught psychology.

He was president of the Union of Professional Journalists in the State of São
Paulo from 1957 to 1959.

He was professor of sociology in the journalism course taught by the Union.

José Herculano Pires was president and professor at the Paulista Institute of
Parapsychology in São Paulo.

He organized and directed Parapsychology courses for academic centers: from the
School of Medicine of USP, santa casa de Misericórdia de São Paulo, paulista
school of medicine and in several cities and colleges in the interior.

He founded the São Paulo Spiritist Journalists Club on 01/23/1948. The club
worked for 22 years.

Mr. Herculano was a member of the Paulista Academy of Journalism where he held the
Chair "Cornélio Pires" in 1964.

Mr. Herculano also belonged to the Brazilian Union of Writers, where he served as
Director and Member of the Board in 1964.

José Herculano Pires was Head of the Subcabinet of the Civil House of the
Presidency of the Republic under Mr. Jânio Quadros in 1961, a role in which he
remained until the resignation of the president. 

Spiritist since the age of 22, spared no effort in the spoken and written
dissemination of the Doctrine Codified by Allan Kardec, a task to which he
dedicated most of his life.

For 20 years he maintained a daily column of Spiritism in the Associated Diaries
under the pseudonym Brother Saul.

For four years he kept in the same newspaper a column in partnership with Chico
Xavier under the title "Chico Xavier asks License".

He was founding director of the magazine "Spiritist Education" published by
Edicel.

In 1954 he published "Barrabás", which received an award from the Municipal
Department of Culture of São Paulo, constituting the first volume of the Trilogy
"Paths of the Spirit". He published in 1975 "Lazarus" and with the novel
"Magdalene" concluded the Trilogy.

He carefully translated the works of the Kardecist Codification enriching them
with explanatory notes in the skirting boards.

These translations were donated to several spiritist publishers in Brazil,
Portugal, Argentina and Spain.

He collaborated with Dr. Júlio Abreu Filho in the translation of the Spiritist
Magazine. By disemincarnating he left several originals which have been
published by Editora Paideia. 

## Source
[O Consolador (pt-BR)](http://www.oconsolador.com.br/linkfixo/biografias/joseherculanopires.html)

