---
title: Humberto de Campos
date: 2019-02-01 19:00:00
topics: 
- spiritism
- humberto-de-campos
- brother-x
- chico-xavier
---

Humberto de Campos was born in the small town of Piritiba, Maranhão, in 1886. He
was a poor boy. \r He studied with effort and sacrifice. He was orphaned by a
father at the age of five. His childhood was marked by misery. \r In his
Memoirs, he tells some episodes that left him deep grooves in his soul.\r

He later moved to Rio de Janeiro, then capital of the Republic, where he became
famous. \r Brilliant journalist and perfect chronicler, his pages were "columns"
in all major newspapers in the country.\r

He devoted himself entirely to the art of writing and, therefore, financial
resources were scarce. At one point in his life, when the savings were made, he
had the idea to change his style. Adopting the pseudonym as Conselheiro XX, he
wrote a chistosa chronicle about the eminent figure of the time, Medeiros and
Albuquerque, which thus became a laughing stock, mockery and mockery of cariocas
for several days.\r The Counselor, sibilino and scathing, injured the pride and
vanity of Medeiros, putting in the mouth of the people the arguments that
everyone wanted to draw against Albuquerque. The success was total.\r

Having done, from experience, that chronicle, from one moment to another was
found in the contingency of maintaining the style and writing more, because its
readers multiplied, raining letters to the newsrooms of the newspapers,
requesting new articles of the Councilor XX.\r In addition to maintaining style,
Humberto deepened in it, becoming for some, at the time, almost immortal,
satiating the palate of an entire mentality that desired more freedom of
expression and more explicitin addressing human and social problems.\r When he
got sick, he completely modified the style. He buried Councillor XX, and the
ashes, which Luminous Phoenix, was born another Humberto, full of piety,
understanding and understanding for the weaknesses and sufferings of his
fellow.\r

The suffering soul of the country eagerly sought Humberto de Campos and received
consolation and hope from him. They were letters of pain and despair that came
into your hands, asking for help and help. And he, touched on the most sensitive
fibers of the heart, all answered, in chronicles, by newspapers, reaching
thousands of readers in identical circumstances of trials and tears.\r

He became loved throughout Brazil, especially in Bahia and São Paulo. His
sufferings, however, increased daily and partially blindand undergoing several
surgeries, living in pension, without the warmth of the family, his life was, in
itself, a picture of pain and suffering. I did not despair, however, and
continued to write for the comfort of many hearts.\r

On December 5, 1934, he defaced. He left taking bitter disappointments from
Earth. Never Maranhão, his homeland, accepted him. His countrymen even harassed
him. Three months only disembodied, returned from beyond, through the young
medium Chico Xavier, this, at the age of 24 only, and began writing, shaking the
whole country with his chronicles beyond the tomb. The fact shook public
opinion. The newspapers of Rio de Janeiro and other states stamped their
messages, attracting everyone's attention. The newsmen shouted, Extra, extra!
Messages from Humberto de Campos, after he was dead!  And the people read with
suffering...\r

Agripino Grieco and other famous literary critics carefully examined Humberto's
production, now in the Beyond. And they attested to the authenticity of the
style. It could only be Humberto de Campos! − they said. Then began a new phase
for Spiritism in Brazil. Chico Xavier and the Brazilian Spiritist Federation
gained notoriety. Several books have been published. The unexpected happened.
Humberto's family members filed a lawsuit against FEB, demanding the copyright
of the deceased!\r

Such was the celeuma, that the history of all this is recorded today in a book
whose title is The Psychography before the Courts, written by Dr. Miguel
Timponi. The Federation won the cause. Humberto, embarrassed, absent for a long
time and, when he returned to writing, used the pseudonym Brother X.\r In the
two phases of the Beyond, he spelled 12 works by medium Chico Xavier.\r

Chronicles of Beyond-Tomb; Brazil, Heart of the World, Homeland of the Gospel;
Good News; New Messages; Light Up; Short stories and Apologists and others were
books he wrote to the delight of many souls.\r

In the first messages, we have a very human Humberto, with characteristics
characteristic of the intellectual of the world. Soon after, he goes
spiritualizing, using ideas and expressions, then becoming the favorite
spiritual writer of thousands.\r

Those who read their works before and after death will be able to see the
reality of the spiritist phenomenon and the authenticity of Chico Xavier's
mediumship.\r

## Source
[O Consolador (pt-BR)](http://www.oconsolador.com.br/linkfixo/biografias/humbertodecampos.html)

