---
title: Leopoldo Machado
date: 2019-02-01 19:00:00
topics: 
- spiritism
- brasil
- rio-de-janeiro
- bahia
---

He was born in Arraial de Cepa Forte, now Jandaíra, Bahia, on September 30,
1891.

Leopoldo Machado, as he was known, began in the Spiritist Doctrine by the
blessed hands of the unforgettable José Petitinga, in 1915, becoming an herald
of faith and work.

Spirit of leadership, was driven to the tasks of good and truth, living the
Spiritist Doctrine in all its strength.

After his marriage to Dona Marília Ferraz de Almeida, he settled in the city of
Nova Iguaçu, Rio de Janeiro, where he began great tasks.

He and his wife took the initiative to build the Allan Kardec Night Hostel and
the Home of Jesus for orphaned girls.

Pedagogical educator, inaugurated the Leopoldo College, a traditional
educational establishment, considered one of the best educational organizations
in the baixada de Janeiro.

Journalist, teacher, writer, poet, composer, preacher and polemist spread the
Spiritist Doctrine throughout all means and forms, deserving the respect of the
opponents of the Doctrine and the admiration of confreres.

Leopoldo Machado encouraged the new generations to pick up the arado with the
creation of Spiritist Youth sanders and Spiritist Schools of Evangelization for
Childhood.

He boosted spiritist weeks, fraternal afternoons, symposia, round tables and
spiritist congresses.

He performed the "miracle" of being present in almost all the spiritist
movements confraternative, throughout Brazil, extolling the Gospel of Jesus and
the Doctrine of spirits, as being the return of Redivivo Christianity, in its
purest sense, as it was preached in the House of the Way.

Among several events, stands out the 1st Congress of Spiritist Mocidades do
Brasil, from July 17 to 23, 1948, with leopoldo Machado Lins de Vasconcelos.

It was one of the most beautiful and profitable spiritist achievements of all
time and, to this day, fruit is harvested.

That same year, Leopoldo Machado was an active part in the Brazilian Unification
Congress, held from October 31 to November 5.

In 1949, he was convened for the 11th Pan American Congress, held in Rio de
Janeiro.

After, he was present, together with Lins de Vasconcelos, Carlos Jordão da
Silva, Francisco Spinelli, Ary Casadio and Luiz Burgos in the Fraternity
Caravan, which crowned the Golden Pact, unifying incentive in the formation of
the National Federative Council , under the auspices of the Brazilian Spiritist
Federation.

He also held the First National Festival of the Spiritist Book, in honor of
April 18.

Writer of several spiritist books, such as Pygmies Against Giants, Caravan of
fraternity, Ide and Pregai and many others, as well as chronicles, plays,
biographies, scripts, theses. He also composed numerous melodies for youth and
childhood.

Leopoldo Machado believed in the strength of the young men, as a driving spring
for the renewal of values of the spiritist movement; believed in Congresses,
Spiritist Weeks and Fraternizations.

He fought tenaciously to untangle many Spiritists, who only thought in terms of
their institutions, because he believed that Spiritism is Light, it is sun that,
in the near future, will illuminate humanity.

He fought for the renewal of values and concepts, without escaping the dictates
of the Kardequian Codification.

Frank, loyal, sincere and daring. That was leopoldo machado's very personal
figure.

He defaced in the city of Nova Iguaçu (RJ), on August 22, 1957.

## Source
[O Consolador (pt-BR)](http://www.oconsolador.com.br/linkfixo/biografias/leopoldomachado.html)  
(Fonte: Personagens do Espiritismo, de Antônio de Souza Lucena e Paulo Alves Godoy − Edições FEESP)



