---
title: Lins de Vasconcellos
date: 2019-02-01 19:00:00
topics: 
- spiritism
- brazil
- curitiba
- parana
---

Artur Lins de Vasconcellos Lopes was an expressive figure of Brazilian
Spiritism.

Frank and combative, jovial and serene, sincere and loyal, good and charitable
made these virtues a routine thing in their relationship life, without ever
ostenting her in the conviviality with his companions of ideal.

He was president of the National Pro-State Lay Coalition, a Republican
institution founded on May 17, 1931, which developed ingente work in favor of
the separation between the Church and the State, especially on the occasion of
the constituent works that culminated in the promulgation of the new Brazilian
Constitution in 1946, having sent numerous civic actions of great depth in
subsequent years.

Lins de Vasconcellos' effort in favor of the congrace of Brazilian spiritists
was one of the most salient, contributing decisively to the advent of the Golden
Pact for the unification of Brazilian spiritists on October 5, 1949. He is due
to a sensible portion of the works initiated in the years 1947 to 1952, in favor
of a greater intertwining between spiritists in our country.

From the newspaper Mundo Espírita' that is edited in Curitiba, we extracted the
following biographical data from this great figure of Brazilian Spiritism:

The battle fought by Lins de Vasconcellos was ingent, arduous and heroic.

Born in a rough region, geographical principle of caatinga, between Paraíba and
Pernambuco, it was natural for Artur Lins to bring in the Spirit the
aggressiveness of the harsh cradle. Fighting, however, against the environment,
improving qualities, resisting the dishonest means of gain, was paving a clear
path to life. Still in his teens, Lins left Paraíba to reside in Rio de Janeiro.
In the old Federal Capital the delay was short.

Immature, with that eagerness for adventures of his own age, and also eager to
know, Lins left for the south of the country, settling in Curitiba. He
constituted a family; graduated in agronomy; made tender for postorary. Your
life has gone on tight. He became a spiritist, integrating entirely into
doctrine. In 1926 there was a serious incident between the state government and
liberal elements, for religious reasons. It is that the state government,
without authorization from the Assembly, had presented land and money from
public assets to the clergy. Small numbers of citizens protested against the
government's indebit act. Among them was Lins de Vasconcelos. He courageously
argued before the government that the tutelary principles of democracy are still
inderogable to the agency of governors. That fearless position of Lins on the
issue of bishoprics led to his resignation from office. He had overcome
religious fanaticism; intolerance to a Democrat's intangible law was
superimposed. And there was reason for Lins: the government could not give the
clergy, hand kissed, land and state money.

Once fired, Lins didn't let himself be shot by the intolerant sanha. You put
your energy in the industry. Won. He became a millionaire. But the money he
easily collected as he himself said – it was a deposit that made Him God for
distribution to the poor through Spiritism. He became a banker of the
unfortunate!

It was simple and without vanity. What was most admired in Arthur was his
Spirit's triumph over one of the most terrible evidence to which a creature can
submit: wealth! Rich, more than rich, opulent, Lins de Vasconcellos beat the
golden fascination, crushed the might that fortune brings, drowned in the
borndouro the ephemeral jouissance that money carries. The currency that came
from business was destined for day care centers, orphanages, hostels,
sanatoriums, schools, magazines and doctrinal newspapers.

There are beautiful bids of pure Christianity in the life of Artur Lins de
Vasconcellos, but reporting them would certainly hurt the humility of our dear
disembodied brother. Just call him: Banker of the Poor! It is a magnificent
title that millions and millions of disembodied would like to possess. Artur
Lins de Vasconcellos obtained this title in life, blessed by thousands of
mouths!

Lins de Vasconcellos was not thrilled with his worldly successes.  He did, yes,
of material wealth, an instrument for the realization of good.  It was good,
wearing the naked, eating the hungry, instruction and education to those who
needed this assistance.

Having disembodied in St. Paul, his body went to Curitiba − a city he loved so
much − and in whose soil he wanted his matter to rest on the day the Father
called him. Your request was satisfied.  Thus, in the Garden in front of the
Administrative Pavilion of The Sanatorium Bom Retiro, in the neighborhood of
Pilarzinho, in Curitiba, surmounted by a simple stone, but which reveals good
taste, in which there is a bronze plaque with expressive inscription, was
inhumed the body of the dear companion of spiritist ideal, the one that
sustained before the misunderstanding of men, so that the Doctrine of spirits
demonstrated that he was able to transform the misfit creatures into beings
capable of loving others, just as Jesus loved us.

The Spiritist Federation of Paraná, which received so many benefits from Lins de
Vasconcellos, recently paid him significant tribute, giving his respectable and
unforgettable name to the clerk who in that neighborhood maintains, at the
moment, working with the course ginasial, the Institute 'Lins de Vasconcellos'. 


## Source
[O Consolador (pt-BR)](http://www.oconsolador.com.br/linkfixo/biografias/linsdevasconcellos.html)



