---
title: Manoel Philomeno de Miranda
description: Aliquam massa urna, imperdiet sit amet mi non, bibendum euismod est.
date: 2019-02-01 19:00:00
topics: 
- spiritism
- obsession
---

Tireless worker, continues his journey by studying and helping everyone issues
relating to obsession. He participated in many spiritual missions in the which
was able to tell us the consequences of the desvarios of the most varied types.
His works are of fundamental importance to understand obsession, and him, by the
mediumship of Divaldo Franco, presents us with several books about this delicate
problem.

On November 14, 1876, in Jangada, municipality of Conde, State of Bahia, the
faithful disciple of the seara de Jesus, Manoel Philomeno de Miranda.  He met
Spiritism in 1914 through medium Saturnino Favila. For this time also met Joseph
Petitinga, establishing strong friendship with him, same time as i began to
attend the sessions of the Bahian Spiritist Union which had recently been
founded in 1915. Disciple of Jos√© Petitinga, had the same special way of
treating and indoctrinating the assistants of the sessions of the "Union",
always based on a masterful gospel verse. Since 1918, Miranda participated
assiduously in the sessions, interested in the doctrinal affairs of Spiritism
and being one of the strongest adherents of the their teachings.

He was on the board of the Bahia Spiritist Union from 1921 until the day of his
disincarnation on July 14, 1942. He also chaired the mediumistic sessions and
work of the Fraternity Group, always very committed to dealing with obsessions.
During this long period Miranda was a bulwark of Spiritism. Where was there
would be the doctrine and its propaganda exercised with proficiency of a doctor,
a selfless. Delicate in the deal, but heroic in the fight. Published, without
the his name, the works "Review of Spiritism in Bahia" and "Excerpts that
justify Spiritism", in addition to the opubsculus "Because I am Spiritist" in
response to Fr.  Huberto Rohden. Suffering from the heart, he climbed the stairs
so as not to miss the sessions, smiling and always excited. I wanted to
extinguish yourself in your compliment.  He felt immense joy in giving his days
to the service of Christ.

On his last words, writes M. Cardoso e Silva: "Now yes!  I'm not going because I
can't anymore. I'm satisfied because I did my duty. Did what I could... which
was possible for me. Take care of the work, as already I determined." It was the
anteeve of his disincarnation. Dear of how many knew him , for those who knew
him could not help but love him -- until the last moment demonstrated the
firmness of the tranquility of the righteous, proclaiming and witnessing the
immortal greatness of the Spiritist Doctrine.

Divaldo Pereira Franco tells us how he began his relationship with the loving
Benefactor, as reported in the book Star Seeding, writer and medium Suely Caldas
Schubert: "In the year 1950 Chico Xavier psychographed for me a message dictated
by the Spirit Joseph Petitinga and in the next meeting another dictated by the
Spirit Manoel Philomeno de Miranda. ( ... ) "In the year 1970 the Spirit Manoel
Philomeno de Miranda appeared to me, saying that on Earth, had worked in the
Spiritist Union of Bahia, having held various positions, dedicated, especially
to the task of studying mediumship and disobeying.  (...) "When you arrived in
the Spirit World, you went to study more deeply the alienations by obsession and
the corresponding techniques of the desobsession. (...) "Invited by Joanna de
ngelis, to bring her contribution around the mediumship, obsession and
disobeying, he spent almost thirty years performing studies and research and
elaborating works that would later be witched into Books. (...) "When i
appeared, then, for the first time, he told me that he would like to write
through me. "He led me to a meeting in the Spirit World, where resides, and
there, showed me how the experiences of prolongation were carried out physical
life through energy transfusion using perispirit.  "After a coexistence of more
than a month, appearing to me daily, to facilitate psychic exchange between him
and me, began to write "In Behind the scenes of obsession", which are accounts,
around spiritual life, of obsessive and desobsession techniques. ( ... ) "On the
visit that Manoel Philomeno me allowed to make the Colony in which he stayed,
led me to a curious Library. Showed me how graphic works are archived that are
done on Earth. He told me that when a writer or a psychic, whoever he is, writes
something that benefits humanity - in the case of the writer - is a
professional, but, what it produces is uplifting, in this library it is
enrolled, with a type of very characteristic letter, translating the nobility of
its content.

As the mind here on the planet develops simultaneously goes plasma there, in
these very sensitive binders, who capture the mental wave and all Print. "When
the person writes for ideal and is not remunerated, when they open up these
books, the letters acquire relief and are in a very pleasant way to the view,
having a peculiar luminosity. If the person, however, does so by ideal and being
in a difficult time, suffered, but still writes with beauty, forgetting herself,
to help society, the human creature, to open up the book, the lyrics acquire a
musical vibe and turn into true corners, in which the person hears, sees and
captures the psychic records of when the author was elaborating the thesis. "The
opposite is also true. ( ... ) "Bethat it is worth it, when we are discouraged
and suffered, not discouragement and continue our tasks, which gives them a very
value Greater. Because the daywork, the sport, the pleasure, already has, in the
own action, their gratification, while that of sacrifice and suffering requires
the selflessness of the person, effort, renunciation and, above all, the
tenacity, to make something that would like to happen real, although the
performing through pain and tears." 


Miranda, by divaldo Franco's psychography, presents us with several books about
the delicate problem of obsession, among which stand out: Between the Two
Worlds, Liberation Trails, Behind the Scenes of Obsession, At the Frontiers of
Madness, Torments of Obsession, Sex and Obsession, and Reunion with Life, among
several others.

## Source
[Espiritismo Brasil - Biografia de Manoel Philomeno de Miranda](http://www.espiritismobrasil.com/biografia-de-manoel-philomeno-de-miranda/)

