---
title: Maria Dolores
date: 2019-02-01 19:00:00
topics: 
- spiritism
- chico-xavier
- poems
---

Maria Dolores came to the world as Maria de Carvalho Leite, in the country town
of Bonfim de Feira (BA), on September 10, 1900, daughter of Hermenegildo Leite,
clerk of the City Hall, and the domestic Balbina de Carvalho Leite. In Bonfim he
spent his childhood. The couple Hermenegildo and Balbina were born, with
Dolores, three men and two women. Biographers, without exception, were unseen
that the great Bahian poet had psychic teas.

In 1916, she graduated as a teacher by the Pardon Scum, considered by colleagues
and teachers as a teenage prodigy, thanks to the rare intelligence.

Poetry, Dolores began to feel it in her hometown, still almost a child, becoming
later the poet of good verses that we all know.  He taught at the Educandário
dos Perdões and the Carneiro Ribeiro Gymnasium in Salvador. In addition, he also
taught private lessons. Hence why we understand their every special way of
teaching, through verses, to afflicted souls.

His Spirit was not limited only to verses. She played the piano, painted, liked
the seam and culinary art. Human par excellence, he lived developing in nate
qualities.

His life could not, however, be only flowers: he was reserved a proof of moral
suffering.

Married to doctor Odilon Machado, she endured the unfortunate consortium for a
few years, which was finally interrupted by the solution of the unquite. There
were no children of this union, as Maria Dolores would never have.

On his pilgrimage, he lived in several cities in Bahia and it was in Itabuna
that he met Carlos Carmine Larocca, Italian living in Brazil, of whom he became
a companion helping him, shoulder to shoulder, in his activities. Owner of Café
Baiano and a typography called The Time. On the occasion of World War II, Mr.
Larocca was a political prisoner because of his nationality. In 1947, she moved
to Salvador, where Maria Dolores continued with her psychic sessions. 

We noticed in her verses how much she had suffered, seeking something she did
not find: her affective complementation, as planned by Providence, so that she
would seek Greater Love, which she knew how to find one day: Jesus! So much
suffering, however, was not able to make it indifferent to human suffering.  In
the press, he spoke of human rights and the suffering of the less happy. It was
not understood: they thought she was "communist", so she had to answer the
accusations they made to her, because he had been subpoenaed.

In girl, outside Catholic; as an adult, suffering had made him aware of the
Doctrine of Allan Kardec and came consolation, acceptance of suffering.  The
pain she endured made her know the then-fought Spiritism. Of a charitable soul
he joined the Legion of Goodwill, founded by the late Alziro Zarur. It was often
to see Maria Dolores dedicating herself to the sufferers of the poor
neighborhoods of the city of Salvador. Moving away from literary lessons, Maria
Dolores is then dedicated to indefatigable charity, raising girls, dreaming of
building the Home of Homeless Girls.

Fearing the appreciation of specialized criticism, he kept for himself his
poetic work for a long time, he confesses in the preface to the book Ciranda da
Vida, whose income allowed the realization of his old desire. With this, Maria
Dolores, who was not a biological mother, became a spiritual mother of several
girls, sheltering in her own home desomuch children, guiding and watching them.

Being recognized in Capital for her art, she began writing in the newspapers
Diário de Notícias e O Imparcial and The Impartial being, in the latter,
editor-in-chief of the Women's Page. For 13 years, he wrote in the newspapers
cited, showing the world of tenderness he brought within himself, under the
pseudonym Maria Dolores.  Nicknamed by the friends and family of Madô and
Mariinha, she was recognized for the sympathy and kindness with which everyone
captivated.

He was campaigning, gifts for the bazaars held in his own home. He founded a
group that met in his residence every week, when they went out to distribute, in
the chosen needy neighborhoods, farnes, clothes, medicines... They were called
The Messengers of Good. At Christmas, they campaigned and distributed donations
as well as on Mother's Day.

Dolores sewed hoxovais, sold what was his or he committed them, and sometimes
contracted debts to help someone. One of her adopted daughters once reported
that when she defaced, someone had come with jewels that belonged to her, which
were given by her to become viable one of the campaigns that then took part.

In the Lord's work, in his dedication to the Evangelical cause, he developed
several psychic faculties. This helped her endure injuries, such as when she was
accused of "communist," and other sufferings that, instead of slaughtering her,
elevated her.

Always forgiving over his tears, which Jesus taught, brought in him a great
maternal sense and, as he was not given the right of motherhood, adopted six
girls.

Carlos (her husband) was in Italy when Dolores fell ill. Pneumonia had attacked
her violently. Antoinette Bastos went to visit her with José and Faustino and,
seeing her dyspneic state and real abatement, provided hospitalization at the
Portuguese Hospital. However, medical efforts were useless. A few days later,
four or five days later, on August 27, 1959, he left back in the Spiritual
Homeland. It was 1:40 a.m. And, as Mara said, in his chronicle, the Crystal
Guizo broke. Nilza immediately warned Antoinette and Maria Alice. They took the
body to the House of Aunt Sara − headquarters of the LBV − and from there left,
with great accompaniment, to Campo Santo.

In a letter written to Maria Alice, Francisco Cândido Xavier narrates the
following: Maria Dolores appeared to her on March 29, 1964, beautiful and
re-engaged. The tears came to my eyes, to see her so clearly next to me. What a
thrill!

Dolores was alva, with black hair and eyes, cheerful and playful, of medium
stature and robust physical. He had disembodied at the age of 59, but his lira
continued to vibrate for the benefit of love, charity and forgiveness, his hymn
to the Lord, no different from the hymns he played and sang full of the joy of
serving.

Chico Xavier was asked what the first poem Maria Dolores wrote through him, and
he said he was the beautiful Desire for Love, inserted in the pages of Anthology
of Spirituality.

Since then, she has sent us, rather through the blessed hands of the mining
medium and also through Divaldo Franco, her pages usually in the form of poetry
and rhymes, being very common to send the traditional messages of mothers and
Christmas, on the occasion of these Celebrations.

Maria Dolores, the poet who resurfaced by the selfless hands of Francisco
Cândido Xavier, when incarnate almost always shelved her poems. In her
bookCiranda da Vida she says why: The fear of criticism, whose aptus are one of
the most common ways in which human vanity is extracted, has made me retreat
before the possibility of publishing my simpleton and cross-like verses. And so
gone the youth, came to old age, and they continue to fill the bottom of old
drawer. I've never been a good way to see it modern, updated even by some
old-school poets. I didn't even try it. Now, however, with the spiritual reform
that has drawn a new path to this end of life of mine, I feel willing and able
to face criticism, because this book is intended, with its sale, to offer little
help to some charities. Unpretentious my attitude. But sincere.
Well-intentioned.

It was not long, however, and the poet reappears with her ineludible style after
an entire existence consecrated to others, composing, especially for spiritist
readers, the most beautiful poems of encouragement and recognition of jesus'
excelsitude.


## Source
[O Consolador (pt-BR)](http://www.oconsolador.com.br/linkfixo/biografias/mariadolores.html)



