---
title: Meimei ( Irma de Castro)
date: 2019-02-01 19:00:00
topics: 
- meimei
- spiritism
- evangelization
---

His baptismal name, here on earth, was Irma Castro. She was born on October 22,
1922, in Mateus Leme-MG. At the age of 2, she moved to Itaúna-MG with his
family, composed of her father, mother and four siblings: Ruth, Carmen, Alaíde
and Danilo.  The parents were Adolfo Castro and Mariana Castro. At the age of
five, she became an orphan of his father.

Meimei was from a different child than everyone for his physical beauty and
unusual intelligence. she was cheerful, communicative, witty, spontaneous.

The living with her, as a family, was for all a gift from Heaven. she studied
the primary course with ease, then enrolling at the Normal School of Itaúna;
however, the disease that had always pursued her since she was little –
nephritis – manifested once again when she was attending, with brilliance, the
2nd normal year. Being the first student in the class, she had to drop out of
school. But very intelligent and eager knowledge, she was ascertaining his
culture through good reading, a source of fraud of his Spirit. Wherever she
showed up, she was admired by everyone.

She radiated beauty and enchantment, attracting the attention of those who knew
her. She, however, modest, was not proud of the skills God had given her. Deeply
charitable, she approached the humble with the alms she could offer or a word of
affection and encouragement. Pure, in her simple way of being and proceeding,
was not given to achievements of her age, despite being extremely beautiful. It
belonged to itaúna's dignified society.

Some time later, she moved to Belo Horizonte, in the company of one of the
sisters, Alaíde, in order to arrange placement. I was in a good period of
health, because the disease that i had had a carrier was going and going, giving
her, sometimes, the hope that she had healed. It was at this time that she met
Arnaldo Rocha, whom she married at the age of 22. They lived a beautiful dream
of love that lasted only 2 years when they fell ill again.

He was bedridden for three months, victim of pertinacious disease – chronic
nephritis. Despite all the efforts and unveiling of her husband, surrounded by
doctors, died on October 1, 1946, in Belo Horizonte.

Soon after, his spirit already clarified began to manifest himself through
messages psychographed by Francisco Cândido Xavier and continues in this
beautiful mission of enlightenment and consolation, in pages organized in
various mediumistic works, which have spread throughout Brazil and beyond our
borders.

His name Meimei (Chinese expression, which means "pure love"), now as venerated
as a Spirit of Light, was given to him in life, affectionately, by her husband
Arnaldo Rocha.

## Source
[O Consolador (pt-BR)](http://www.oconsolador.com.br/linkfixo/biografias/meimei.html)



