---
title: The Spirit of Truth
description: In vestibulum massa quis arcu lobortis tempus. Nam pretium arcu in odio vulputate luctus.
date: 2019-02-01 19:00:00
topics:
- spiritism
- spirit-of-truth
- jesus
- allan-kardec
- gospel
---

It is contained in the Gospel of John, chapter 16, verses 12 and 13, the
following\r jesus' promise: I still have much to tell you, but you cannot bear\r
Now. But when that Spirit of Truth comes, he will guide you throughout the\r
truth, because he will not speak of himself, but he will say whatever he has
heard and\r announce what will come.\r

We know that Jesus, because of the intellectual and moral limitation of the
creature\r human, could not say everything to His time. Therefore, he often
used\r allegories and taught through the parables, but in the Holy Supper, in
the quoted excerpt\r of the Gospel of John, he stated that the Spirit of Truth
would come to guide us\r through the truth.\r

We find in spiritist coding several messages attributed to the Spirit\r of
Truth, and we know that He is responsible for the coming of the venerable
Doctrine\r Spiritist and acted directly in the coding period, inspiring Allan
Kardec\r and spiritually directing his task.\r

There are, in the spiritist environment, basically three positions on who would
be the\r Spirit of Truth: 1. it would be Christ himself; 2. would be John the
Baptist; 3. would be\r a group of high spirits acting under the direction of
Christ.\r

In Spiritist Magazine, from March and June 1862, there is the evocation of two
members of the\r Parisian Society of Spiritist Studies that returned to
Spirituality:\r Sr. Jobard and Sr. Sanson.\r

Mr Jobard, when asked by Allan Kardec about the Spirits who were\r seeing, says:
I see, mainly Lazarus and Erasmus; then, further away, the\r Spirit of Truth,
gliding in space; then a multitude of Spirits\r friends around you, grateful and
benevolent. Be happy, friends, because\r good influences dispute you to the
calamities of error (March 1862).\r

Mr. Sanson, for his part, says he was seeing the Spirit of Truth, Holy\r
Augustine, Lamennais, Sonnet, São Paulo, Luís and other friends, as reported\r
Spiritist Magazine of June 1862.\r

Given this valuable information, we can exclude the idea that the Spirit\r of
Truth would be a group of Spirits, for it is actually a\r Spirit.\r

In The Gospel according to Spiritism, in Chapter VI, we find one of the\r most
beautiful messages of the Spirit of Truth: I come, as before, among the\r stray
children of Israel, bring the truth and dispel darkness.\r Listen to me.
Spiritism, as my word once, must remind the\r incredulous that above them reigns
the immutable truth: the good God, the great God,\r that germinates the plants
and that lifts the waves. I revealed the doctrine\r divine; and, as a seater, I
connected in bundles the sparse good by humanity, and\r said, "Come to me, all
of you who suffer!"\r

(...) All truths are found in Christianity; the mistakes that in it if\r rooted
are of human origin. (...) Spiritists: love, here's the first\r teaching;
instructed you, here's the second.\r

This message is also found in The Book of Mediums, in chapter XXXI, item\r IX,
and in the end, in a note, Allan Kardec says that she was received by one of
the\r best mediums of the Parisian Society of Spiritist Studies and was signed\r
by the Spirit Jesus of Nazareth.\r

The Encoder speaks of the elevation and the ideas contained in the message,
leaving the\r each assessment of the authenticity of the authorship.\r

The content of the message is really high and is also perceived by the words\r
used, such as. .. and said, "Come to me, all of you who suffer!\r " that could
only have been dictated by the Spirit who signs it.\r

Given the seriousness of the subject herein, we seek other messages of
authorship\r spirit of truth, with the scope of analyzing the content and
words\r used in order to clarify His identity.\r

In the Spiritist Magazine, from December 1864, there is a message from the
Spirit of\r Truth, where He references the work The Gospel according to
Spiritism, \r released that year:\r

A new book has just appeared; it's a brighter light that comes to lighten the\r
your march. Eighteen centuries ago I came, by order of my Father, to bring the
word of\r God to men of will. This word was forgotten by the largest number, and
the\r unbelief, materialism came to stifle the good grain I had deposited\r in
your land.\r

There are several abodes in the Father's house, I told them eighteen centuries
ago. These\r words Spiritism came to make them understood.\r

We also find, in The Gospel according to Spiritism, in Chapter VI, another\r
magnificent lesson of the Spirit of Truth: I am the great doctor of souls, and\r
I come to bring you the medicine that must heal you. The dereal, the sufferers
and the\r sick are my favorite children, and I come to save them. Come,
therefore, to me,\r all of you who suffer and who are overwhelmed, and you will
be relieved and\r consolados.\r

In this way, we ask:\r

Who's the great doctor of souls?\r

Who brought God's word to men of will?\r

Who said, are there many addresses in the Father's House?\r

Who said: Come to me, all of you who suffer...?\r

There's no doubt about it.\r

The Spirit of Truth is Jesus, who returned to fulfill the promise to send the\r
Promised Comforter, so that He took care directly of the coming of the\r
Spiritism to the Earth, and the other Spirits who collaborated in the\r Coding,
such as St. Augustine, Saint Vincent de Paulo, São Luís,\r Socrates, Plato,
Paul, St. John the Evangelist, Erasto, acted under His\r direct inspiration.\r

## Source
[Mundo Espirita - Quem é o Espírito de Verdade? (pt-BR)](http://www.mundoespirita.com.br/?materia=quem-e-o-espirito-de-verdade)

