---
title: Yvonne A. Pereira
date: 2019-02-01 19:00:00
topics: 
- yvonne-pereira
- spiritism
- mediums
- mediumship
- suicide
---

Born in Rio das Flores (RJ), Yvonne would turn 78 years old on December 24,
1984, the year she died. His disincarnation occurred in March.\r

Single, Yvonne lived with a sister and nephews in the Piedade neighborhood of
Rio, after residing in the mining towns of Lavras and Juiz de Fora, which led
many confreres to think that she had been born in Minas Gerais, land of large
mediums and notable figures of the Spiritism, such as Chico Xavier, Euripipedes
Barsanulfo, Abel Gomes and so many others.\r

Between the 1960s and 1980s, Yvonne do Amaral Pereira had articles of her
published in the journal Reformador, under the pseudonym Frederico Francisco, a
name chosen in honor of polish composer F. F. Chopin, with whom she certainly
maintained close spiritual ties originating in the past.\r

Yvonne presented as a medium several psychic skills, a subject to which she
refers as follows:\r Types of mediumship − As a psychic medium I worked my whole
life, from 1926 to 1980, as a prescription, assisted by entities of great
elevation, such as Bezerra de Menezes, Bittencourt Sampaio, Augusto Silva,
Charles, Roberto de Canalejas and others whose names never knew. I was and to
this day I am a medium counselor (see The Book of Spirits, classification of
mediums) psychoanalyst and passistir, assisted by the same Spirits.\r As a
medium of incorporation, I was not in the class of sonambúlicos, but talkative
(see The Book of Mediums) and had specialty for cases of obsession and suicidal,
and a long work I have done in this sector.\r

Materializations − I was also a medium of physical effects (materializations)
and i came to perform some materializations by default of my will, of course,
without wishing, during sessions of the kind to which I attended, in full
assistance, that is, without cabin or other any formality. These
materializations were luminous. But I did not get interested in this genre of
phenomenon, I never appreciated it and did not cultivate it, to the advice of
Bezerra de Menezes and Charles, who saw no need to dedicate myself to such a
sector of mediumship.\r

Cures − For 54 and a half years I practiced spiritist cures through homeopathic
prescription and passes and even through prayers. I have often achieved healing
in obsidiados with some ease, assisted by related companions. I have always felt
a great love for obsessive spirits and have always had them as friends. I was
requited by them and never harmed me.\r

Bureaucracies as an obstacle to the practice of good − I always kept a spiritist
and medium very independent, I never consented to the direction of the nuclei
where I worked gauge and bureaucratized my psychic faculties.\r

I consecrated them to the services of Jesus and only obeyed, unrestrictedly, to
the Church of the Above, and with it exercised charity at any day and time when
it was sought by the sufferers. To this end, I deepened in the severe study of
doctrine, in order to know the land on which I walked and rightly preserved my
independence. However, I strictly observed the criteria and schedules set by the
few centres where I served, but I have never submitted to the bureaucracy
maintained by some. If I was not allowed to attend needy in the Center, so or
for that, on certain days, I served them anywhere else, whether in my residence
or theirs, and so I obtained significant cures, for I learned from the Gospel
and spiritist doctrine that there is no time or day to exercise good.\r

The cures I achieved were carried out with simplicity, without formalism or
innovations in spiritist practice. I have always been averse to the propaganda
of my own works and never accepted the tributes they wanted to pay me.\r

Brazilian Spiritist Federation – I loved and respected the Casa-Máter of
Spiritism in Brazil since my childhood, guided by my father, who also loved and
respected her. I later submitted to her, counseled by my beloved Bezerra
spiritual guides of Menezes and Charles.\r The two entities said: 'Only the
Brazilian Spiritist Federation trusts your psychic literary productions. If one
day, any of them are rejected, submit: Keep it, in order to remake it later, or
destroy it. But don't trust her.\r

That was why I never donated any books by me received to the publishers who
asked me for publications.\r

In the text that follows, Yvonne A. Pereira speaks of her childhood, her parents
and the emergence of the psychic phenomenon in her life and informs that,
contrary to what many think, did not graduate as a teacher:\r

Descent − I was born on December 24, 1906, after a ball at my maternal
grandmother's residence, in a place on the outskirts of Rio de Janeiro, now the
city of Rio das Flores.\r

By paternal line, certainly coming down from Portuguese Jews... and also
descending from Brazilian Indians of the Goitacás tribe, because my paternal
great-grandmother was Goitacás India.\r

Influence of parents − My father was generous from heart, very disinterested
from the goods of fortune, and for that reason he could not be a good dealer.
Three times he was a dealer and ruined himself, as he favored the customers in
his own loss.\r

I was raised with great modesty, even poverty, I met difficulties of all gender,
which benefited me greatly, because very soon I got away from the vanity of the
world.\r

I learned thus, from my parents, to serve the next most needy than we, for, in
our home, they were welcomed with affection and respect, and even hosted, poor
creatures devoid of resources and even beggars, some of whom were sustained by
them for a long time.\r Religious influence − I was born in a spiritist
environment, so to speak, and so I never had another belief but the spiritist.
My father became a spiritist, though not a militant, since before my birth.\r

I received, therefore, from my own father the first lessons of spiritist
doctrine and practice of Spiritism and Gospel.\r

He did, already at that time, meetings of doctrinal studies with his children,
weekly, which we all solidified in the Spiritist Doctrine.\r Schooling –
Contrary to what many friends assumed about me, I am not a graduated teacher or
did any other school course, except the primary, a fact that, for me, was a
great ordeal.\r

Emergence of mediumship − Mediumship presented itself in my life as a child.\r

At one month of age, she was going to be buried alive due to a catalepsia
phenomenon, 'apparent death', which I suffered, a phenomenon that in the course
of my existence was repeated many times.\r

At the age of 5 I already saw Spirits and with them spoke.\r

Psychic development − I have never developed mediumship, it presented itself, of
course, without me worrying about attracting it, because, in fact, there is no
need to develop the mediumistic faculty, it will present itself, if really
exist, and if we are dedicated to spiritist operosities.\r

The first time I sat at a practice session table I received a communication from
the Roberto de Canalejas Spirit, dealing with suicides.  \r

Disappointment in the first meeting with FEB\r

Yvonne A. Pereira's first meeting with the summit of the Brazilian Spiritist
Federation could not have been more disappointing.\r

Here's how Yvonne refers to the subject:\r

The first time I visited FEB, carrying a mediumistic work, this was not
received, nor even read. It was by the year 1944, and who welcomed me, at the
top of the main staircase, was Mr. Manuel Quintão, at the time one of his
directors and examiners of the literary works entrusted to her.\r When I
explained that I took two books to the Federation exam (they were Memories of a
Suicidal and Love and Hate), that gentleman cut my word, saying, −No, no and no!
Only psychic books by Chico Xavier come in here. I'm very busy, I have two
hundred books to examine and translate and I don't have time for more...\r

And he talked to Dr. Carlos Imbassahy, whom he was talking to on my arrival.\r

I retired without getting worn out. I recognized my disability and I didn't
insist. In fact, I had not understood the plot of 'Memories of a Suicidal', I
believed it was a great mystification and, I silenced.\r

Arriving at my residence, I took a matchbox and the originals from the two books
and went to the backyard in order to burn them, because I didn't even have a
convenient place to keep them. But as I scratched the match and approach the
pages of the flame, I saw suddenly the arm and hand of a man, transparent and
slightly bluish, extended as protecting the pages, and a frightened voice,
telling me in the ear: ' − Wait! Keep them!' My heart recognized her as bezerra
de Menezes' vibrations.\r

One morning, however, after the prayers and the prescription I made in my humble
home, for the needy who were looking for me, Léon Denis presented himself
saying: − Let's remake the book on suicide. He's incomplete, he can't be
published as he is.\r So I understood that Mr. Quintão had been inspired by
spiritual friends not to receive me when I sought him out in the Federation.\r
In fact, it was only in 1955 that Yvonne was able to complete the work of Camilo
Castelo Branco, then corrected doctrinally by Léon Denis and bequeatheto
humanity this mediumistic literary preciousness entitled Memories of a Suicidal,
which was eventually published by FEB. \r

Yvonne's disincarnation \r

Yvonne A. Pereira defaced on March 9, 1984, in Rio de Janeiro, at the age of 77.
The burial of his body was carried out on the 10th, at 4:30 pm, in the Inhaúma
Cemetery, with accompaniment of family members and confreres, among which there
were many journalists and spiritist writers and leaders of Spiritist Centers,
the Spiritist Culture Institute brazil and the Brazilian Spiritist Federation.\r

Yvonne has devoted herself to mediumship since the age of 20, psychographing
numerous books and messages from Spirits such as Dr. Bezerra de Menezes,
Bittencourt Sampaio, Augusto Elias da Silva, Charles, Roberto de Canalejas, Léon
Tolstoi, Camilo Castelo Branco and others .\r Among the works he psychographed
stand out the classic Memórias de um Suicida, a work written by Camilo Castelo
Branco, and the novel Amor e Ódio, by Charles, which is, together with
Emmanuel's Ave, Christ, considered by many scholars the best spiritist novel
ever produced in our country.\r

It was in Lavras (MG) that she exercised her first activity of great
responsibility in the spiritist environment, when, still very young, she
belonged to the board of the Spiritist Center of Lavras, as secretary. There she
directed the Psychic Post and was for several years the medium responsible for
spiritual exchange in the recepte and healing sector.\r

In Juiz de Fora (MG), she was secretary, librarian and vice president of the
Spiritist House, as well as collaborator at the João de Freitas Foundation. At
the Spiritist House he founded the James Jansen Library and taught manual works
at the Professional Institute Eugênia Braga, free of charge.\r In Barra do Piraí
(RJ), he actively participated in the Spiritist Guild of Beneficence, as a
prescription medium and exhibitor of The Book of Spirits and The Gospel
according to Spiritism. At the same time, he taught Christian morals to children
at Ismael College and joined the group of ladies who took care of the social
assistance area of the Spiritist Guild of Beneficência. \r


## Source
[O Consolador (pt-BR)](http://www.oconsolador.com.br/linkfixo/biografias/yvonne.html)


