---
title: Zilda Gama
date: 2019-02-01 19:00:00
topics: 
- mediums
- spiritism
- chico-xavier
---

Zilda Gama was one of the most celebrated mediums in Brazil. He was born on
March 11, 1878, in Três Ilhas, in Juiz de Fora (MG)and defaced on January 10,
1969, in Rio de Janeiro. She was the second daughter of Augusto Cristina da
Gama's 11 children, a peace clerk, and Elisa Emílio Klörs da Gama, a state
professor.\r You did your studies with your own mother. He later enrolled in the
Normal School of São João Del Rei, where he received a diploma as a primary
teacher. As a young man, at the age of 24, he became orphaned by his parents,
having to take over the direction of the house, taking care of five younger
brothers and, later, five other orphaned nephews.\r

She was a teacher and school principal, being awarded in competitions promoted
by the Department of Education of Minas Gerais. As a young man, Zilda Gama began
to realize the presence of spirits. She received psychicmessages from her father
and sister, already disembodied, who advised and comforted her in the difficult
trials she was going through. In 1912, he received an interesting message signed
by Allan Kardec. After this manifestation, the Encoder provided him with other
teachings, which were printed in the book Diário dos Invisible, published in
1929.\r In 1916, the Benefactors informed her that he would become
psychographing a novel, a fact that left her quite perplexed. Victor Hugo's
Spirit then began to write through him. In a short time, the first work, In the
Shadow and in the Light, was complete. Later, under the tutelage of the same
Spirit, came the books From Calvary to Infinity, Redemption, Supreme Pain and
Crucified Souls, all published by FEB. Undeniably, the great mediators who have
served as a bridge between the material and spiritual worlds, in the meritorious
work of unveiling new horizons for the troubled earthly humanity, were
missionaries, and it can even be held that in the constellation of mediums who
shone on Earth, making sure men new knowledge and preparing the ground for the
implementation of truth, Zilda Gama flashed in a glowing way, fitting him to a
position of the most prominent.\r

Zilda Gama's work in the lay press − In 1927, he participated in the Congress of
Instruction in Belo Horizonte. In 1929, he obtained the first place in a
competition promoted by the Department of Education of the State of Minas
Gerais, with a work on Classes - Model, when he was enrolled in the School of
Improvement of Belo Horizonte, completing the course in 1931, in the same year
that in the Brazil there was intense movement for women's rights. Zilda Gama was
the author of the thesis on the female vote in Congress, which was officially
approved.\r He wrote short stories and poetry for several newspapers,
highlighting the Jornal do Brasil, the News Gazette and Revista da Semana, all
from the former federal capital.\r

He practiced professional journalism in newspapers of Juiz de Fora and Ouro
Preto, São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro.\r

The psychic books psychographed by Zilda Gama made time in spiritist literature,
besides having the merit of softening many pains and snapping many tears. It was
the first in Brazil to receive such vast literature from the spirit world.\r

Other publications produced by its mediumship: Solar de Apoleo, Na Seara
Bendita, Na Cruzada do Mestre e Elegias Douradas.\r Didata par excellence
organized the following books: The Children's Book, The Garrotilhos, The Manual
of Teachers and Thought.\r The message Kardec gave him in 1912 − Despite the
great moral struggles he had to sustain, Zilda Gama was the advisor to many
creatures.\r

In 1959, after suffering stroke, he lived in a wheelchair, assisted by his
nephew Mário Ângelo de Pinho, who kept him company. Zilda Gama, a soul of escol,
dedicated all his long existence to the purpose of spreading in Brazil the
comforting Doctrine of Spirits and, having lived until almost 91 years, became a
paradigm for all who view mediumship as a lyrical and authentic priesthood.\r

Something that draws our attention to Zilda Gama's work is the fact that
Kardec's psychographed message was psychographed in 1912, when Chico was 2 years
old. \r In the book Pioneers of a New Age, by Antônio de Souza Lucena, the fact
is mentioned by the author, who says that in 1912, in the city of Beyond Paraíba
(MG), Zilda Gama, who at the time had no knowledge of the Spiritist Doctrine,
received a message signed by Allan Kardec , with the following content:\r Upon
your forehead is suspended a luminous ray that will guide you through all the
difficulties, of all obstacles, and it will be your glory or your condemnation,
according to the performance you give to your psychic burden. Girde yourself
with courage, without fainting and without slippage, in all your social and
divine duties and you will be able to be triumphant.\r

As we know, in 1912, medium Francisco Cândido Xavier was incarnated and lived in
Pedro Leopoldo (MG), where he was born on April 2, 1910. The episode is
illustrative and should be meditated by all who have been proposing the thesis
that Chico would be the reincarnation of the Spiritism Encoder.\r

## Source
[O Consolador (pt-BR)](http://www.oconsolador.com.br/linkfixo/biografias/zildagama.html)





