---
title: Suicide
description: In vestibulum massa quis arcu lobortis tempus. Nam pretium arcu in odio vulputate luctus.
date: 2019-02-01 19:00:00
image: "images/masonary-post/post-2.jpg"
topics: 
- suicide
- rebellion
- dignity
---

It was Saturday morning. He rang the phone and someone answered.

A male voice, embarrassed by emotion, to harsh feathers, began dialogue.

I wanted to know what the Spiritist Doctrine had to say about suicide. What
would, according to Spiritism, be the fate of those who end their lives.

He said he was on the firm purpose of ending the miserable life he had been
leading for about two months.

He pointed out that his bankruptcy had been enacted in a distant city in another
State of Brazil. And to escape the scandal, he moved out of town in search of an
opportunity, but in vain.

Now, he claimed, he wanted to escape life permanently, to solve his torments
once and for all.

He heard, of the person who answered him, in quick words, the spiritist position
on suicide.

That it is a fake door and that those who seek it in an attempt to end the
problems only aggravate them more.

That you can only get out of the body, without leaving life, which remains
pulsating in the beyond tomb. That only those who put us in the world have the
right to take us away from him. And that this someone is God, our Creator
Father.

He also heard that his bankruptcy could only be enacted by himself, now yes,
through suicide. What a man could do it.

That bankruptcy decreed outside that of his company and that surely if he
continued to work willingly could reverse the situation.

May God never abandon us, much less in the difficult hours of our journey. That
all of us, without exception, have a guardian angel interested in our victory.
In the victory of the immortal Spirit over matter, over vices and
misconceptions.

The man said he had lost everything, that he was in misery, that he had nothing
left.

And the voice on the other side of the line made the charge saying that true
misery is moral misery. And that we can only ensure that we have nothing left
when we lose dignity.

The world can take everything away from us, everything we have, but it will
never take away what we are, will never be able to draw true conquests like
dignity. Only if we allow it, accepting the invitation of indignity.

The man reflected a little, said that his friends and his home, which was on
behalf of his parents, who were deceased. Finally, he decided to return to his
city and start over again.

*   *   *

Cases like this we just narrated are a constant on the face of the Earth.

If you are experiencing similar problems, be sure to take into account the
guidance of the Superior Spirits.

Escape the invitation to suicide as a solution to problems.

Suicide is a terrible mistake, because it's a fake door.

As soon as the person performs the act of suicide, he realizes the cliff that
opens in front of him.

*   *   *

In general, it is the suicide bombers who suffer the most after death.

It is that when they arrive in the spirit world they realize that they did not
achieve the intent, which was to put an end to life.

They continue to live and realize that to the problems, from which they wished
to flee, others add up, by the lack of faith in God and by rebellion.

In natural death the bonds that bind the Spirit to the body are slowly untied,
while by suicide they are violently broken, without, however, allowing the
Spirit to be freed.

For that reason, let's not let ourselves be tried for the invitation to suicide.
It's never going to be worth it. Before, we pray to God forces to bear the
burden we carry.

## Source
Momento Espírita - 11.10.2010
[Momento Espírita (pt-BR)](http://www.momento.com.br/pt/ler_texto.php?id=590)

