---
title: Human Beings
date: 2019-02-01 19:00:00
image: "images/contact.jpg" 
topics:
- body
- human-being
---

A Human Being is a Spirit incarnated in a material body. The perispirit is the
semi-material body that unites the Spirit to the physical body.  

Human Beings are given the [free will](/divinelaws/free-will) to act, but they
must answer for the [consequences](/divine-laws/cause-effect) of their actions.  

Physical beings constitute the visible or incarnate world; non-physical beings
constitute the invisible or spiritual world, i.e. the spirit-world.  

Among the different kinds of physical beings on Earth, God has chosen the human
species for the incarnation of spirits who have arrived at a certain degree of
development.  This characteristic gives the human species an ethical and
intellectual advantage over other living species.  

Human beings consist of the following: 1) a body, or physical being, similar to
that belonging to animals and animated by the same vital principle; 2) a soul,
an immaterial spirit incarnated in the body; 3) an intermediate link which
unites the soul and body.  

Human beings have, accordingly, two natures: animal and spiritual.  Through the
body, humans participate in the nature of animals, with which they share
instincts.  Through the soul, they participate in the nature of the spirits.  

The qualities of a person are a reflection of the incarnate spirit's qualities.
Consequently, a good person is the incarnation of a good spirit, and a bad
person of a less advanced one.  

In addition to the [material world](/about/material-world) inhabited by
incarnate Spirits, which are Human Beings, there exists the spiritual world,
inhabited by discarnate Spirits.

Human Beings are given the [free will to act](/divine-laws/free-will), but they
must answer for the consequences of their actions. Within the Universe there are
other inhabited worlds, with beings at different degrees of evolution: some
equal, others more or less evolved than Human Beings. 

## See Also
todo

## Related
todo
